The human rights lawyer argued that it is legally permissible, in some circumstances, to take a debtor’s property as a lien.
Also, the report said FIRS needs to work closely with the NBS to identify small and medium-scale enterprises (SMEs) and ensure they pay taxes appropriately.
f. Mrs. Rafatu Salami, Assistant Director, Digital Media, Voice of Nigeria (VON)
• Umar Salihu Baba – Bauchi South
This follows the reversal of the extension in office granted by the President from 2nd April, 2023 to 2nd of April, 2025 due to the fact that the EVC had completed two tenures of five years each in the organization.
The House gave the order following a ‘Matter of Urgent Public Importance’ brought before the House by the Deputy Majority Leader, Noheem Adams (Eti-Osa I), during plenary.
Another resident, Zayyanu Sadiq, told VOA Hausa that the terrorists also killed an aged man and sent a message to the community threatening to attack it.
In the suit, the plaintiffs are arguing that: “the media has the task of distributing all varieties of information and opinion on matters of general interest and public interest.”
Police have been deployed to the area to restore order and fish out the perpetrators, the police spokesperson said.
The police spokesperson in Lagos State, Benjamin Hundeyin, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) that three other police officers were seriously injured in the attack.
The real diseases are those of us, men and women, sitting on the thrones of influence and power, those who adopt silence as a tactical weapon of choice, those who look the other way and who use silence as an excuse to sit on the fence of deceit.
Mrs Obinabo assured that her ministry would vigorously pursue justice for the victim and ensure that the defendant, if found guilty, is punished in accordance with the law.
Interim President of the American University of Nigeria (AUN), Attahir Yusuf, a professor, described the new approvals as an affirmation of NUC’s confidence in AUN’s institutional integrity.
“In a place like parts of Ogbaru (LGA) where security forces have been fighting the criminals and oil bunkerers, the sight of few policemen can indeed attract vengeance from the criminal gangs.
SERAP is also arguing that “Addressing the brazen impunity and reports of electoral violence and other electoral offences during the 2023 general elections would also send a strong message to politicians that they would be held to account for any infringement of the electoral process.”
Labour Party (LP) has called on all election petition tribunals to disregard letters by its suspended National Legal Adviser, Samuel Akingbade, withdrawing all the party’s petitions.
CPJ condemned the court decision following the PREMIUM TIMES publication earlier in April.
The justice sought the cooperation of lawyers, saying “let us avoid making sensational comments or statements.”
Although Mr El-rufai has less than three weeks to the end of his tenure, the federal government, through the Federal Ministry of Education (FME), has approached a competent law court and obtained an injunction restraining the state government from further works on the land in dispute.
“The foreword for the book is written by the Chairman Board of Trustees of the Murtala Muhammed Foundation Former President Olusegun Obasanjo with essays on violence, gender, and more from writers, novelists, academics, public figures, including Nobel Laurette Professor Wole Soyinka, Mozambique and South Africa’s former first lady, Graça Machel-Mandela, Emir Muhammadu Sanusi II, Bishop Mathew Kukah, Professor Femi Oyebode and beyond.
Pasuma sings in English and has featured Olamide, Oritsefemi and Phyno in other songs.
The BPE assured the public of its commitment to ensuring the success of the verification exercise.
IGP gives N38.3 million to families of slain police officers
“The coaches have done their work to prepare us for the games, and we are coming in to use the knowledge they have imparted in us to get what we want to achieve; qualifying for the World Cup and trying to win the tournament.”
The Court is also expected to listen to some witnesses, including an ex-employee of the former UN-backed Special Court for Sierra Leone, who’s based in Australia.
Mr Buba held that the EFCC failed to establish a prima-facie case against them.
They added that the defendants ran the firm unlawfully, unfairly and prejudicially without proper oversight of the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC).
The fact that the Labour Party is in the court means that they do not believe that this election was constitutional, I don’t see why he will be tamed as a fascist.
Mr Jonathan, in his Easter message in Abuja on Saturday, described Easter as a period to reflect on the gift of salvation and the power of faith and hope in surmounting earthly challenges.
“I live with my mother and siblings in Tsafe town.
Some of the ranking members of the region include the spokesperson of the House, Ben Kalu from Abia State, Miriam Onuoha from Imo State and Chinedu Ogah from Ebonyi State.
PIA is Nigeria’s second biggest energy sector achievement – Buhari
Its symptoms include fever, headache, sore throat, general body weakness, cough, nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, muscle pains, chest pain, and in severe cases, unexplainable bleeding from ears, eyes, nose, mouth, and other body openings.
Therefore, the region is in a front-running position for Senate Presidency and Speakership.
CAC, which argued that the case was not backed by any credible evidence, prayed the court to dismiss it.
Upon rejecting Mr Amaechi’s advice, Ms Bala Usman claimed that the former minister “then told me that he would ensure that the investigation went on until 2022 when political activities would have started, and the president would not remember that I was still on suspension.
Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) and Chairman of PTC, Boss Mustapha, said this in a statement made available to journalists on Saturday in Abuja.
The SOS Children’s Villages, a global nonprofit, on Tuesday provided humanitarian intervention to 110 flood-affected households in Agboyi-Ketu community in Lagos State.
There will be further elaborations forthcoming in DEMOCRACY PRIMER III – Bookcraft’s INTERVENTION series, now brought forward for publication on June 12, the watershed extorted from the current regime as the nation’s Democracy Day,
He stated that “information has it that the agenda of the Invaders was to inaugurate an illegitimate executive which has been chosen for them by their sponsors.’
“Consequent upon the earlier appeal cum request of Ogun State Chapter of PASAN demanding the full implementation of CONLESS and all attached allowances in their letters of March, 2013, the National Leadership wish to reiterate our strong support for the clarion call that “Their demands be attended to on or before 31 of May, 2023” which its failure may allow Our union to pursue the goal from other legitimate actions available.
Mr Bello premised his application on the grounds that the properties listed were not proceeds of an unlawful act, as they were acquired long before he was elected Governor.
The event, billed to attract the crème of Nigeria’s economic, political, academic and policy elite, will focus on: “How Nigeria Can Build a Post-Oil Economic Future.”
The governor described the ceremony as the best labour day in the country today and called on workers to support his administration.
Mr Baba, therefore, said all officers and men deployed for these duties be properly supervised to ensure professionalism and courteous conduct.
Mr Emmanuel said the loans are better appropriated in a budget, with a supplementary proposal that changes the allocation to education and healthcare.
— sosodef (@aisosaigiebor) April 2, 2023
But Mr Akinosi has denied the allegation, saying the hawker eventually apologised to him for feigning injury after breaking the side mirror of his vehicle.
They hold between the 12th and 71st positions in the seniority list of 76 Justices of the Court of Appeal.
What played out in Adamawa was a microcosym of what played out in all over the states during February 25 and March 18 elections in Nigerian.
Additionally, the hospital has a specialized X-ray suite equipped with a digital X-ray machine as well as a diagnostic suite encompassing MRI, CT scan, and endoscopy facilities.
This was the consensus when stakeholders in the health sector gathered at the end a knowledge-sharing event for the “Accelerating Equitable Access, Acceptance, and Uptake of COVID-19 Vaccines (ACCESS)” in Abuja on Thursday.
“They need a very secure network to communicate and I believe with this project as part of the Giwa 2 project.
“Adolescence is a critical stage in human development, more so for girls.
The National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), in a statement, said no death was recorded but workers were trapped in the building and a reponse team had been mobilised to search for those trapped in the building.
He said INEC would decide the next line of action on the Ikono/Ini federal constituency after a meeting in Abuja.
In North-central, the defence spokesperson said the troops of Operations Safe Haven and Whirl Stoke apprehended 44 suspected criminals and rescued 252 civilians during the period.
Ugochukwu Chukwulobelu, programme manager, Anambra State Tuberculosis, Leprosy and Buruli Ulcer Management, says the state ranks highest in Childhood Tuberculosis (TB) contribution in Nigeria.
[PHOTO CREDIT: Twitter handle of Mr Kalu]While commiserating with the former governor of Abia, Atiku urged him to take solace in the fact that the deceased lived a purposeful life.
Through the development of innovative delivery systems and technologies (the term often used is “novel vaccines”), we’ve created innovations for preventing deadly bacterial infections.”
“I feel blessed by this honour and privilege.
The Sector Commander of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) in the state, Abdullahi Hassan, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Calabar that one person was also injured in the accident.
“But since Wednesday when we reported at the IDH, apart from isolating the patients and the relatives exposed to the infection at a ward, we had to purchase all medications needed,” Mr Ale said.
Mr Omo-Agege said the establishment of the Federal University of Medical and Health Science, Kwale was without question, a worthy achievement.
Mr Achimugu claimed that between 1999 and 2007 when Atiku was vice president, he conspired with ex-President Olusegun Obasanjo to rip off the country using what he termed “Special Purpose Vehicles.”
PT: We will hold you to account on that
Yet unsatisfied but determined to cause more problems, Mr Lai Mohammed, who fancies himself as modern day Gobbeal is on a tour of some selected countries to present an alternative story about the 2023 discredited election, and from his first statement in Washington have assumed the role of the courts by stating that Mr Obi has no pathway to victory.
Akpabio, senators-elect meet Tinubu in Rivers
Mr Pate was Minister of State for Health in the administration of former President Goodluck Jonathan.
The poorly made foods given to school pupils is distasteful despite the humongous amount been spent.”
In a statement released by his office at the weekend, the President-elect commended Mr Olupona, a professor in the field of Religious Studies, for his outstanding contributions to knowledge production and humanity.
President Muhammadu Buhari has urged Nigerians to continue to be confident and believe strongly in Nigeria as a geo-political entity for better seasons ahead.
Hassan, told the court that the NBC was established to regulate the broadcast industry in line with its mandate to ensure standard broadcast content.
“The choice of a Muslim/Muslim ticket might rule out the top guys from the North-west,” he added.
Although direct linking to the newspaper’s clippings doesn’t work, users can download the newspaper as images and share them on their websites or blogs.
“Above all, for being the one that conducted and supervised the free and fair 2023 general elections that produced these results”.
Mr Lael explained that the more people in need of urgent food assistance go unassisted, the greater risk of starvation and death among the most vulnerable, and that the more people would be forced to resort to coping mechanisms such as survival sex, selling possessions and child labour.
PREMIUM TIMES had reported how a Peoples Democratic Party delegate, Tanko Sabo, gave millions of Naira to some people in his local government after serving as a delegate at the primaries.
According to the minister, the 2011 elections recorded 800 casualties, the 2015 polls recorded 100 deaths, and 150 casualties were recorded during the 2019 polls.
“We strongly hope that our call for rescue to our dear nation Nigeria will be responded to with immediate effect,” the students appealed.
In an interview with NAN on Wednesday in Igbokoda, Mr Ojatuwase made a passionate appeal for the resettlement of the inhabitants due to the recurring incidents of ocean incursion.
It is equally a known fact that President Buhari has failed woefully in securing Nigeria, and Benue state in particular.
Pick the right response and deliver the necessary intervention to attend to increasing and unending challenges as they come.”
And again, while I was in Washington, I read somewhere that “Nnamani had a stroke.” Which Nnamani?
Also, telephone calls made by our reporter to the Special Adviser on Media and Publicity to the Governor, Muyiwa Adekeye, were not answered or returned.
He said: “I wish to enjoin all Muslim Faithful to be moderate during the celebration of Eid-el-Fitr and continue to extend love to one another, especially the less-privileged in our society.
According to the Director General of NAFDAC, Mojisola Adeyeye, “the R21 Malaria vaccine is an adjuvanted protein vaccine presented as a sterile solution.
The convicts – Gidado Shuaib and Olufemi Alfred – published the article in question on 26 March, 2018, with title, ‘Kwara Factory Where Indian Hemp Smoking is Legalised.’
Since 1945 when the railway workers and 16 other public service unions led the first General Strike to demand for better wages as a result of rising cost of living, the Labour Movement in Nigeria has always fought on the side of the masses of our country.
Mr Igbalaye said the people of Osun should expect quality governance from the PDP and from Mr Adeleke, now that election litigation was over.
“Opposition’s overconfidence going into the election stemmed in part from the blitzkrieg of social media propaganda as well as faulty and procured opinion polls.
Speaking at her book launch titled ‘Stepping on Toes—my odyssey at the Nigerian Ports Authority’ on Saturday she explained that the notion is a “bad work culture” in both public and private organisations.
He equally lauded the governor for congratulating the Abia State Governor-elect, Alex Otti, on his victory as well as for urging other candidates not to “distract him with court litigations.”
Also, Jurji Gomos from Plateau State University was elected Vice President, North-central; Aminu Dukku, a professor from Bayero University, Kano, was elected Vice President, Northwest; and Epron Silas of the College of Health Science and Technology, Gombe, was elected as Vice President to represent the North-east.
Turkish President Erdoğan congratulates Tinubu as Nigeria’s next leader
”Betara’s campaign and consultation with the president-elect is one out of many consultation he had embarked upon in the last three months ahead of the June inauguration."
Others include House Leader Alhassan Doguwa, Muktar Betara, Sada Soli and Aminu Wali.
There are 176,974 polling units in Nigeria and infractions and violence were recorded in less than one per cent of these units."
According to him, items recovered include two AK47 rifles, two pistols, two pistol rounds, machetes, four ATM cards, five SIM cards, mobile phones and other sundry items.
The sector commander sympathised with the families of the victims and urged drivers to avoid night journeys, speed and use of worn-out or expired tyres.
The institution would advance the performance of officers in accordance with the provision of the Nigeria Police Act, Mr Buhari explained.
Police bust child trafficking syndicate, rescue two children in Enugu
Mr Alia defeated the People Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidate, Titus Uba, who is also the Speaker of the state House of Assembly.
It, therefore, sought a declaration that the sanctions procedure applied by NBC in imposing N500,000 fines on each of the 45 broadcast stations on March 1, 2019, violated the rules of natural justice.
Pretoria once again on the horns of an ICC dilemma
Within this period, I have followed and watched, with keen interest, Ike Ekweremadu’s inspiring career which traversed private legal practice and public administration.
Nigeria electricity bill cheapest and most defaulted across globe – Minister
But the religious factor is against the region.
It also urged the Nigerian government to take all diplomatic steps and other necessary interventions regarding the travails of the Ekweremadu family.
His journey on the bench began with his appointment as a judge of the Federal High Court 24 years ago on 12 November 1998.
“(This would) allow candidates to take full advantage of AUN’s advanced technological support and learning facilities to further their academic and professional careers,” he said.
They are disrupting over 110 flights of Air Peace.
The Oyo State Executive Council has announced the appointment of the paramount ruler of Emuoha Kingdom, Sergeant Awuse, as the Chancellor of the Ladoke Akintola University of Technology (LAUTECH), Ogbomoso.
However, some witnesses said the gunmen were members of a cult group chasing a member of a rival group.
He called on residents of Anambra to become more friendly with the environment by adopting the preventive measures recommended by experts and discussants.
Alleged Cyberstalking: Police arraign social media influencer Chude Nnamdi
Baba only wrote him a letter to step in as Afenifere Acting Leader.
In his remark, Steven Lauwerier, UNICEF Director of Health, said since the COVID-19 pandemic, babies, children, and women who were already exposed to threats to their well-being, especially those living in fragile countries and emergencies, are facing the heaviest consequences of decreased spending and efforts on providing quality and accessible healthcare.
‘‘This implies that unemployment will drop significantly to 6.3 per cent in 2050 from 33.3 per cent in 2020.
Both Messrs Tambuwal and Gwanda – Gobir lead in their zones while the deputy governor is behind APC’s Mr Wamakko with about 11,000 votes.
“Metered customers during the period stood at 5.13 million from 5.02 million in Q3 2022, indicating a 2.00 per cent growth rate.
“And his focus on security, he really tackled kidnapping in Anambra and I also remember that he really clashed with Anambra elites when he was tackling insecurity and kidnapping and that shows me that he is quite decisive even though he has a bit of a stubborn streak he is very focused on things that are really why I supported him.
We will miss you.
It is heartwarming that your accession to the throne is coming after the 70-year-reign of your iconic mother, Queen Elizabeth II, whose death last September left the entire world in grief, given her eventful reign.
When is Easter 2023?
“The petitioners (Labour Party and Mr Uhumwago) state that election was successfully conducted in all the wards and units on 18/3/2023 and at the end of the said election, the petitioners had won convincingly,” his lawyers, including Stanley Imhanruor, stated in the petition filed at the election tribunal on 5 May.
He noted that billions of dollars were pledged by donors at the historic Global Fund Replenishment meeting in Geneva, Switzerland in 2022 to boost the fight against HIV, TB and Malaria.
The Press Attack tracker in the first quarter of 2023 tracked and verified 45 cases of harassment and infringements suffered by journalists in Nigeria, fueling troubling concerns about press freedom and human rights in Africa’s largest democracy.
“Let us look at what is good for our country and avoid time-wasting applications,” he said.
The court fixes a date in June to decide on the preliminary objections filed by EFCC and ICPC against Mr Keyamo's suit calling for Atiku's probe.
Mr Eniang said two new child ambassadors for conservation in Akwa Ibom were recruited with the arrival of the birds at the Uyo airport.
“As conveyors of information, journalists must be able to discern that which is worthy of communicating to others and present the same with clarity, while the recipients of information must learn to sift through it, evaluate it, and integrate it properly into an intelligent world view.
But details on the clear identity and motivation of the Kwali attackers have been slow to emerge.
Mr Bature urged members of the committee to work according to the guidelines of the party’s constitution.
They hacked into the email account by fraudulently obtaining the account credentials, according to the prosecutors.
• Khabeeb Mustapha Jigawa S/West
The National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP) says it has arrested some members of a cult group in the FCT perpetrating gruesome acts of sextortion.
She and her family were illegally targeted with Pegasus surveillance beginning in 2015, in one of the first known uses of the powerful spyware against journalists.
The Minister of Defence, Bashir Magashi, represented by the Permanent Secretary, Ibrahim Kana, commended the DHQ for the successful completion of the secure nationwide defence communication network infrastructure.
The council also approved a contract for the development and implementation of mobile device management solutions for personal digital assistant devices to be used for the 2023 population census for N4.4 billion.
Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party and Peter Obi of the Labour Party are challenging the declaration of Mr Tinubu as the winner of the 2023 presidential election by the Independent National Electoral Commission.
“The elders have resolved that Ndigbo will no longer fold their hands and watch their kit and kin humiliated, brutalised and killed,” the group said.
This is in continuation of the commission’s stakeholders advocacy meetings for a holistic overhaul of the Nigeria Police Force for optimum service delivery.
It takes a lot to make Nigerians laugh, considering the country’s economic situation.
The public holiday we observe is not just to commemorate the contributions and sacrifices of workers to the well-being of our country.
The social media influencer Chude Nnamdi denied cyberstalking a business mogul, Emeka Offor.
“Today that register has a list of 10 million households.
Earlier, the state chairman of the party, MacDonald Ebere, said the governor’s victory was not surprising to the people of the state.
He also directed them to ensure that all facilities and critical government infrastructure in the area of responsibilities were protected during this period as always.
“About a thousand of them who came on about 300 motorcycles spent Saturday night in Labo village,” a reliable source told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN).
Until now, the question of compensation had remained unanswered.
The father of three was arrested on Tuesday in Ibiade, Waterside Local Government Area of Ogun State.
“As we have noted, we found Mr Fagbewesa’s oral evidence to be inconsistent.
He was the High Commissioner of Nigeria to the United Kingdom between 1999 and 2002.
On the new bill, Mr Ngige said “So you asked that a bill submitted by a member be removed as a condition not to commence strike?
PHOTOS: Sanwo-Olu visits as Hilda Baci attempts Guinness World Record for longest cook-a-thon
“The youths of Eastern Obolo went and destroyed all those coconut plantations.
So, the question, aside the Nigerian governmental maladies at grievous moments is, why do Nigerian students keep gravitating towards Sudan’s and other “mushroom” universities when they could have studied in Nigeria?
“I will never forget the pivotal role the great and wonderful people of this state played in my victorious campaign to become the next president of this country.
Cashmir Agbo, chairman, Enugu State Labour Party, said that there was a need for party members to be guided by the rules and laws of the Constitutional provisions and the laws of the land and the party.
You didn’t see the men wagging tongues?
He was shortlisted as a finalist in BBC Radio 1’s Live Lounge Introducing talent search.
“2023 is our global opportunity to catch-up on lost progress in essential immunisation.
The Head, Press and Public Relations of PSC, Ikechukwu Ani, said this in a statement on Thursday in Abuja.
Accordingly, based on the zoning arrangement, the leadership of the APC has endorsed Godswill Akpabio from Akwa Ibom(South-south) and Jibrin Barau from Kano State(north-west) as the senate president and deputy senate president respectively while it also endorsed Tajudden Abass from Kaduna State(North-west) and Benjamin Kalu from Abia State(South-east) as the speaker and deputy speaker.
PREMIUM TIMES reported how gunmen, on 21 April, killed the officers at a restaurant in Ulakwo, a community in Ngor Okpala Local Government Area of the state and also killed the couple.
The police command in Nasarawa State has arrested Salisu Buhari, one of the inmates of Kuje Correctional Centre who escaped from the facility during the July 2022 jailbreak.
“I pray you will assess me based on my vision, and my values, which are “Accountability and Professionalism” and support me on this journey,” she appealed.
According to the report, which was released on Tuesday, the cleanup exercise would last over 12 years.
The minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola (SAN), commended the Idigbe family for keeping their father’s beautiful legacy alive.
I learnt that people from Kucheri and Yankara were also abducted,” he said over the phone.
According to him, Mr Umar is also expected to help in getting more Nigerians into important positions in the INTERPOL.
Artefacts: Benin king notifies Netherlands govt of federal govt’s gazette
The court's ruling dismissing the suit challenging the PDP delegates' list comes barely 24 hours before the party's governorship primary election scheduled to hold in the state on Friday.
is to create a profile on the CMRIS portal and apply for the desired service via https://cmris.npf.gov.ng/.
“The lopsided structure of Nigeria’s trade performance over time is linked to low trade diversity,” it said.
Sudan is reminding us of the broken cistern-like bloodshed that Africa of the twentieth century was.
Mr Obi’s votes represent 89 per cent of the total votes.
The observer groups, in separate statements, called on the electoral commission to continue collation and sanction all erring officers.
Instead, it said matters have deteriorated, with the recent cash exchange policy causing naira scarcity and worsening the situation.
The challenge is how we process it, how we focus on its roots.
The NBS also noted that the total customer numbers in Q3 2022 stood at 10.94 million from 10.81 million in Q2 2022, showing a rise of 1.20 per cent.
IPI Nigeria is also concerned that as laudable as the passage of the Freedom of Information Act is, journalists have not been able to fully utilise the law to hold public officials accountable because government officials continue to play pranks to deny them the information they seek.
Nigeria kicks against ‘substandard specifications’ for African markets by Chinese firms
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the court had, on 21 September 2022, ordered the commencement of the defendant’s trial in absentia after he failed to appear before the court.
The outcry over lack of religious balance in the winning APC presidential ticket is echoing in the races for leadership positions in the 10th National Assembly
I will take a break and advise people like Governor Inuwa Yahaya if they need it,” he said.
The state government had earlier in 2020 began the distribution of thousands of coconut seedlings to schools and organisations in the state in its effort to ensure sufficient supply of coconut to the refinery.
Details of the company’s financial report published on Monday showed that it incurred N2.4 billion in foreign exchange loss, about five times the figure for the same period of last year.
“IPOB family members should organise and observe this date in any form each country, zone, or unit considers best.
“The USAID-MCGL is proud to have partnered with the women affairs in equipping the GBV shelter for routine operations through funding from the agency and USAID, today the GBV safe space is a reality.
The NSCIA, headed by the Sultan of Sokoto, Saad Abubakar, said this in a broadcast Thursday evening.
Mr Adeleke, who remained in office to exhaust his right of appeal, had appealed against the decision of the tribunal.
The launch attracted the best of the sober stakeholders in the moulds of high ranking and veteran diplomats, high profile civil society players and academics, among others.
After an Islamic prayer led by the Chief Imam of Egbaland, Sa’dallah Bamgbola, the body of Mr Ajibola was interred within the Islamic Mission for Africa (IMA) premises, a centre he established decades ago on Abiola Way area of Abeokuta, the Ogun state capital.
Oh yes, could these rabid parochial minds of easy excitation also kindly stop flattering themselves that one’s energies are consecrated solely to the nation space known as `Nigeria?
“Having been aware of these agitations of course, it should be called to mind that the South-west and the North-east have produced the president and vice president respectfully.
You were a front-row participant in some of those moments of veto override.
“You will always find in me a governor that is responsive and open to the wellbeing of labour.
“Government hereby directs all affected staff to resume work at their offices immediately and ensure resumption of activities in all ministries and the office of the accountant-general for implementation of this directive,” the statement added.
Mr Onifade noted that since Peter Obi was told to go to court since he feels unsatisfied with the election outcome, which all international monitors chorused was flawed and full of imperfections and he accepted, there have been severe attacks on him from all corners.
The meeting held in the Maitama District of the Federal Capital, was at the instance of Mr Gagdi.
“That is what NAFDAC Food Safety and Applied Nutrition (FSAN) and Post Marketing Surveillance (PMS) are doing this week at the production facilities and in the market respectively,” she said.
Supreme Court fixes date for hearing Nnamdi Kanu case
A patient sitting in the general out-patient area, identified simply as Ms Mary, said she was not aware of the doctors’ strike.
Cap, C45 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004.
Woman sues husband for failing to take her to Saudi Arabia after four years of marriage
Access Holdings tops this week’s pick for declaring a final dividend per share of N1.30 for fiscal year 2022, bringing its total for the year to N1.50.
Tonye Krukrubo, SAN – ALTERNATE CHAIRMAN
In Unit 44 Ward 5 opposite the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) office complex, the Presiding Officer, James Ar-Ibibbia, said that no person had voted in the unit as at 10:40 a.m.
The NCC had in March announced the availability of frequency slots in the 600 MHz spectrum band for nationwide deployment.
He has visited Governors Hope Uzodinma and Nyesom Wike of Imo and Rivers States respectively.
All efforts must be made to sustain the adequate sourcing and application of this innovative vaccine in the fight against malaria, akin to the noble efforts made to ensure the eradication of polio in Nigeria and Africa,” he said.
ETI tops this week’s pick on the strength of trading close to its lowest price in 52 weeks, which offers a strategic entry point to investors seeking stocks that offer opportunities for capital appreciation.
This year’s edition of the annual programme was styled to be a commemoration of the 100th birth anniversary of the founder of the law firm and former Justice of the Supreme Court justice, Chukwunweike Idigbe, who passed on about four decades ago.
The former Anambra governor gained 1.9 million votes out of 2.2 million votes in the region.
He added that Mr Obi, a former governor of Anambra State, South-east Nigeria, was harassed by the London immigration officials and placed in detention where he spent the Easter holidays.
This will no doubt help in the effective functioning of government at the federal and state levels for the benefit of our people,” he said.
The supplementary poll was held in 69 polling units in the 20 local governments in the state, with less than 40,000 eligible voters.
When someone slapped me, some elders in the area intervened and Bebex threatened that he will do more and won’t be held accountable.”
“The sea eats our lands and coastal towns as there is no social and environmental justices in the policies of the political class as we only cry to God to instill His peace.
The BBC announced that Tom Cruise, Dame Joan Collins and Disney’s Winnie the Pooh would feature in the concert.
The EFCC argued that while parties were awaiting a date for the hearing of case SC/CR/223/2020 at the Supreme Court, Mr Yakubu brought an application before the apex court to direct the commission to deposit the monies in a bank account to be managed by the registry of the Supreme Court.
Following an unusually heavy buy pressure on the stock, the company traded 2.8 billion units in the last nine days and its shares have gained about 70 per cent within one week.
Total results of the 18 March election and 15 April supplementary elections
Mr Ossai declared that the motion is “unconstitutional,” adding “It will fringe the rights of Nigerians”.
“Although the absolute gains are larger for high-skilled workers than for low-skilled workers, low-skilled workers experience a multifold increase in their income as well.
Mr Tinubu will begin to enjoy constitutional immunity from prosecution once he is inaugurated on 29 May.
“I look forward to your continued support as the Greater Lagos of our collective dream continues to rise.”
The event involved trooping and retiring of old colours, presentation of new colours, march past, blessing of the colours by the spiritual leaders from the army and presentation of commemorative coin among others.
*One (1) Patek Philippe watch
Yusuf Gagdi, an aspirant for the position of the Speaker of the 10th House of Representatives, on Friday, met with members-elect on the platform of the Labour Party in Abuja in the quest to actualise his ambition.
Police commissioner removes DPO over alleged extortion
PRESIDENT BUHARI APPROVES IMMEDIATE SUSPENSION
UBA customers were the worst off – they had to make regular trips to Eket for their transactions as the bank was yet to resume operation due to the devastating damage to its building and the ATMs.
The National Secondary Education Commission (NSEC) Law was enacted in 2004 (LFN, 2004 Cap 73).
Mr Matawalle, in a statement sent to PREMIUM TIMES, alleged that the reason Mr Emefiele allegedly sought such study leave was “apparently in a bid to evade rendering accounts.”
Mr Ejimakor said Justice Lewis, a senior judge of the UK court, on 8 May, granted the family the permission to appeal the court ruling.
”Ibrahim Babangida University, Lapai; Federal University Wukari, Taraba state; Federal University Birnin-Kebbi; Imo State University of Agriculture and Environmental Science; Edo State University and the Federal University of Technology, Akure, are to get N3 billion each.
UCL: Inter defeat Milan to qualify for first final in 13 years
The proponents of this message were later consumed by the same hatred which gradually infiltrated their own ranks.
The energy firm pledged that it would continue to support the development of local communities and companies.
The director however warned all intending pilgrims who are yet to return their completed application forms or submit their International passports to do so.
My wife was not around.
Other respondents sued by the petitioners include Shikun & Binui Solel Boneh and SBI International Holdings Limited AG described as the majority shareholders of Soleh Boneh.
“The stage play, titled “Ikenga: The Dramatic Recreation of the Igbo Landing Story,” and exhibitions, will capture the events of 1803 in various dimensions which will enable participants to understand what transpired 220 years ago.
Ms Carter said the judge followed a considered and balanced approach and that the final sentence that he imposed could not be said to be unduly lenient.
“The Governor admonished them to view the horrific experience as a turning point and pursue their education with renewed vigour for a purposeful future.
The third prayer the government made to the court was to grant it an order restraining the accused “from giving any instruction, demanding, accepting, receiving payments and/or transacting, transferring, mortgaging or howsoever dealing in any manner with assets of the Defendants in both houses and land in Abuja and Lagos and others located outside Nigeria.”
In a statement on Tuesday night by his spokesperson, Christian Aburime, Mr Soludo said the deceased would be “fondly remembered for passing a law that created the Anambra Vigilante Services, establishing Anambra State University, Uli, among other legacy projects.”
“It is recommended that employers, recruitment organisations, agencies, collaborations, and contracting bodies check the red and amber country list for updates before any recruitment drive,” it noted.
Head, Press and Public Relations
Count 1 said that the suspects “on the 20 April, at about 20:00 at Mercedes Benz Line, Ladipo Market, Mushin, Lagos did conspire among yourselves to commit felony to wit: conduct likely to cause breach of peace and assault and thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 411 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015,” ChannelsTV reported.
“We are calling on the APC leadership to ensure that Senator Barau Jibrin becomes the next senate president to form a rallying point for the party in the North-west in particular and the North at large, Mr Magaji said.
But history is only repeating itself on the dismissed NIPC chief.
The organization accused the commission of failing to make reports of its investigation available in the public domain regarding the issue.
Mr Olafare said the fire did not spread beyond the affected building, as it was swiftly put off by the combined efforts of the government fire service, Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU) Fire Service and the Palace Emergency Control Unit.
But President Buhari is not a North Korean dictator.
Mr Abbas, a lawmaker from Kaduna State North-west, was picked as the preferred candidate during a meeting held on Friday afternoon at the Defence House, the official residence of the president-elect it was learnt.
Mr Yahaya was a two-term finance commissioner under Mr Goje.
The Council says the approved programme of events would be unveiled at a World Press Conference scheduled for Thursday, 18 May.
“It is equally a known fact that President Buhari has failed woefully in securing Nigeria, and Benue State in particular,” the statement said, accusing the president of abdicating his statutory duty of security lives and properties,” he said.
Four of them were born before the Independence, while only one of them was born post-Independence.
From North-west are Sada Soli (Katsina), Abubakar Makki (Jigawa), Tajudeen Abbas (Kaduna) and Ahmed Jaji (Zamfara).
President Muhammadu Buhari on the fifth day of the official visit to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, shared a warm moment with some of the country’s governors and other officials, where he was updated on ongoing situations including the conclusion of outstanding elections back in the country.
It had promised to deploy the BVAS machines in uploading polling results in real-time onto the INEC Result Viewing Portal (IReV) on the day of voting, but reneged on the “assurances,” citing “glitches” as reason for failing to upload the results on real-time.
He is reputed to have taken the agency to national and international reckoning.
He said that the NWC congratulated all the party’s candidates at the 2023 general election for their victory and plans to hold a leadership summit in May for all the elected officers.
The current outbreak of Mpox started in the United Kingdom, linking confirmed infections and different strains to West Africa.
More than two-thirds of deaths were among children under the age of five living in the African region.
Elections are over, and we are in court to retrieve our stolen mandate.
It is absolutely indispensable to ensure adequate sensitivity to diversity in the workings of democratic processes, say at the level of political parties as well as at the level of formulating solutionist agendas such as may involve constituting membership for an all-important organ like the National Media Commission whose relevance transcends election and related complications.
“As discussed in depth in the Global Financial Stability Report, financial conditions are fluctuating with shifts in sentiment,” the report said.
Having heard arguments from both sides, the court held that the offence warranted a custodial term of not less than three years, adding that there was no proper basis for the judge to have reached a custodial term outside the range for “Category 2A offending”.
I will not compromise on that.
This is a direct intimidation of the courts and a waste of taxpayers’ money (Nigeria’s money).
•Storing foodstuff such as rice, garri, beans, corn/maize, among others, in containers which are well covered with tight-fitting lids.
“So far calm has been restored to the general area of Mangu Local Government, while monitoring continues.
He also endorsed Tajudeen Abbas (North-west) and Ben Kalu (South-east) for speaker and deputy speaker respectively.
“All Nigerian airlines are under very strict oversight by the NCAA hence no room for unsafe practices by any Nigerian airline.
The returning officer said, “that Tolulope Akande-Sadipe of APC, having satisfied the requirements of the law is hereby declared winner and is returned elected.”
It is instructive that Peter Obi and Rabiu Kwankwaso broke away from the PDP to contest the election on the platforms of the LP and NNPP respectively.
Global partnerships and investments in the fight against malaria have yielded positive results by preventing some two billion malaria cases, saving 11.7 million lives and putting eradication within reach.
Nigeria’s biggest oil and gas company by market value, Seplat Energy, said Thursday there is a court action initiated by the Nigerian government alleging a breach of immigration law by the company and some of its directors.
I became a member of the House of Representatives, did Atiku influence that?
"The first instance was that the president did not confer any advantage on his ruling party; and that is why as far as he was concerned, he would rather lose the election than win at all cost; and the result showed it.’’
We believe that the powers of the CAC to regulate incorporated trustees should be limited to registration, constitutional law and ancillary matters, but not the management of the trustees.
The government also introduced excise duty on single-use plastics.
The other two are Eko and Carter bridges.
The trio were returning to Port Harcourt after a trip to Brass in Bayelsa State when they were abducted.
The senior lawyer urged the court to do justice to the matter by acquitting the defendants not only to assuage their feelings but to redeem their damaged reputations.
The State Chairman of the Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC), Alex Agwanwor, appealed to the state government to implement the executive salary structure which was approved by the National Salary, Income and wages Commission in 2019.
If elected Speaker, my style will be of inclusivity, respect and advocacy.
Davido immediately went on the defensive as his guards rushed on to take out the intruding fan.
I love my wife but she never come back to me”, the suspect said.
She has extensive hands-on experience in banking and development.
I urge all Nigerians in areas where the additional polls will take place to eschew violence and conduct themselves in an orderly and peaceful manner.”
Mr Ogakwu stated that the North-east, North-west and South-west have all taken their turns at the speakership, hence, the ruling party should give the South-east the opportunity to occupy the position.
PREMIUM TIMES reported that the president-elect, Bola Tinubu, reportedly endorsed Godswill Akpabio (South-south) and Barau Jibrin (North-west) for Senate President and Deputy Senate President respectively.
Recently, we saw the show of shame that took place in Adamawa.
Mr Kazeem quoted the FRSC Corps Marshal, Dauda Biu, as advising motorists to desist from night journeys to reduce fatalities from road crashes.
Mr Kanu has been in the custody of the SSS since he was arrested in Kenya and brought back to Nigeria in June last year.
Then, the Rwandan regicide came.
BEC activities involve scammers gaining unauthorised access into the email accounts of companies and businesses, and using them to trick others to pay money into certain accounts.
He also urged the governor to implement the harmonized retirement age for teachers in the state from 60 to 65 years which was being implemented in other states.
“I pray it would come to that time where he can actually take necessary steps to bring about a genuine peace and reconciliation in the party.
Our politics is therefore a clash between right and wrong, justice and injustice, love and pain.
He was aged 74.
“My flourishing and manned law Chambers (whilst I am away on national assignment) and my real estate investments are still far more financially profitable than serving my country.
I congratulate the winners of the Supplementary Governorship elections held in Kebbi and Adamawa States on Saturday, April 15, 2023.
In what is a reflection of higher voter turnout in Northern Nigeria compared to the South, for the governorship elections, the next set of states that had the highest turnout were also all Northern states.
The system, where there is a division of labour, there is job description, it is the system where people should work.
According to the group, the 2015 rebellion produced grandstanding at the expense of good governance.
Mr Ekwo directed that the application would be taken together with the issue of jurisdiction on the next adjourned date.
Mr Ogun said despite the USPF, “most of the mobile telecommunication network operators are reluctant to move to the rural areas owing to the business considerations.
“The local government is not folding its arms against the sea incursion ravaging the community as the state government has been partnering with the Federal Government to find a solution to the impending danger in the area,” he said.
The National Working Committee of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has constituted a special committee to conduct the primary election for aspirants ahead of the November governorship election in Kogi State.
The court ordered the police to refrain from intimidating the union’ s officers and to remove all barricades it imposed around their secretariat and to grant them unhindered access to their offices.
A Twitter user who posted the video on 20 April on the microblogging site said the victims are students of the Imo State University who refused to allow the officers search their phone.
With the composition of the membership of the 10th Senate finalised, the six opposition parties have altogether 50 senators-elect as against APC’s 59.
In constitutional matters, the requirement of locus standi becomes unnecessary to a great extent as it may merely impede judicial function.
Charles Adah Agada (Mavlon FC)
A former President of Guinea, Alpha Condé, reportedly confirmed conferring what he described as “Ambassador extraordinaire” on Mr Tinubu.
According to Mr Aliagan, the foundation invited Muslims and non-Muslim professionals and academicians to brainstorm to find a lasting solution to the menace.
This resulted in a slow-down of its GDP which fell from US$123.053 billion in 2017 to US$40.852 billion in 2018.
The latest situation report released by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) Thursday shows that Nigeria has recorded 4,338 suspected cases in 2023.
Part of NSSEC’s mandate is the regulation of Senior Secondary Education in Nigeria, managing the National Senior Secondary Education Funds, and advising the Federal Government on the management of senior secondary education.
In his remarks, Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, explained: “This issue started in 2018, but we approved it in 2020.
The newspaper claimed that the speaker is also working against his deputy, Idris Wase, and other aspirants in the race.
Datti: Group accuses Soyinka of ‘selective witch-hunt’
Flat, easy disposable lies that gain traction by repetition.
Al-Burhan has pledged to “facilitate and guarantee” the evacuations and to provide the countries with “the necessary support to ensure this,” the army spokesman said.
It has come to my attention that one of our respected elders and former President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Mr Okey Wali, SAN was reportedly abducted in the early hours of yesterday, 17 April 2023, after his convoy was attacked along East–West Road, in Obio/Akpor Local Government Area of Rivers State.
That is what I am doing now, building a bond, declaring that I am running, Some men find it offensive.
IMiriam Onuoha (Imo) and Ben Kalu (Abia) from the South-east and Muktar Betara from Borno State, North-east have also declared interest in the race.
The remaining 29 per cent were not related to the elections.
Their father came home from work to find the victim using the computer.
41 stands the least chance of passage, even though the majority of Nigerians want it.
Mr Gambo said the Federal Land Use Act frowns at the government’s conduct and quoted Section 9 of the Act specifically.
An appeal court in London, the United Kingdom, has sentenced a Nigerian man to three years in jail for physically abusing his nine-year-old son.
The Federal University Birnin Kebbi (FUBK) has announced the appointment of 17 new top officials.
They argued that the petition was a waste of judicial time.
“While other states were given infrastructural loans, Benue under Governor Ortom was denied access to the funds.
Chimamandi became needlessly embittered because her tribal option and those of her political Party failed woefully.
The management of Godfrey Okoye University Enugu (GO-UNI), has banned staff and students of the institution from wearing shorts to work as well as to attend lectures.
PREMIUM TIMES reported how fighting erupted in Khartoum on Saturday between the Sudanese army and the paramilitary group leading to the death of at least 56 people and 595 others including combatants injured.
Lastly, the movie’s end appeared unresolved because Boma’s lie was maintained, and showed no significant change in the characters at the end of the day.
President Muhammadu Buhari on Friday joined other worshippers at the State House mosque to witness the early closure of the 2023 Ramadan daily Qur’anic recitation (Tafsir).
‘Missing’ 48 million barrels of oil: Malami finally agrees to appear before Reps
Mr Ahmadu said the purported suspension and expulsion of some members of the party was illegal, stating that Mr El’Sudi ceased to be the state chairman of APC on 10 February.
“The Imo you see today would have been three times better, if not for the huge money we spent fighting insecurity, but God almighty has intervened.
“This unassuming gentleman from the famous Zazzau royal family is a trailblazer in the aspect of lawmaking that he alone has sponsored 74 bills and 21 of them have been signed into law by the President,” he added.
We have come on our knees to beg the government to bring the perpetrators of this dastardly and heinous act to book.
“The South-West has the president; the North-east has the Vice-President.
“The crux of the petition being the nomination and sponsorship of the 1st petitioner’s candidate is statute barred, having not been commenced within the mandatory 14 days provided for under the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999;
He is one of the 10 aspirants that have declared interest in the speakership battle.
“Or are their actions not fascist?
Why should I buy you a birthday present?
I also pray for the qui recovery of the police officers who suffered guns ot injuries from the incident.
Meanwhile, some Chinese nationals who have worked informally as miners in Zamfara serve as runners for some militant groups in the state and other north-western parts of the country, the report alleged, adding that researchers found that interaction with militants runs so deep that some serve as runners for Chinese miners who have spread throughout Nigeria, controlling digs for gold.
She has served as either Secretary, Member or Chairperson of several committees and panels of the university.
Nigerian govt approves action plan on protection of human rights
This latest result means the Harmony Boys have failed to win any game in their last five league games; a development which sees them just three points above relegation embattled Nasarawa United.
The assailants were said to have divided themselves into groups, shooting while they executed their abduction mission.
Mr Kuti is expected to meet his bail conditions within 48 hours, his lawyer, Adeyinka Olumide-Fusika ; as well as police spokesperson in the state, Benjamin Hundeyin, both said.
Buhari arrives Madinah for lesser pilgrimage, official visit
The newspaper reported that residents of the community were leaving in their numbers to the neighbouring communities when news of a possible reprisal by the military filtered into the community.
“It is evident from what we are witnessing here today that you have the infrastructure designed to stand the test of time and deliver on its mandate,” he said.
He said the operatives stormed the suspects’ hideout following a tip-off about their criminal activities in the area.
Basically, this is to guarantee personal human rights over people with HIV in work places so that they are not discriminated against and they are given equal rights.
A former Director General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dakuku Peterside, will on May 25 speak at the Centre for Pan-African and Peace Studies (CePAPS) of the African University of Science and Technology (AUST), Abuja.
We are all humans, if I have hurt some people along the line of my service to the country, I ask that they pardon me.
“Regimental colours are awarded to formations and units after their formation and are retired when the formation or unit becomes defunct as a result of organization or structural changes.
Mr Echeng said the hoodlums were heading to Anambra State on a motorcycle for a planned attack before the operatives intercepted them.
Mr Ani added that Mr Arase commended the police officer for refusing to be provoked by the action of his aggressor, a development he said would have been fatal.
“You do know going forward the good doc, your Apple warranty is voided oh , think am oh,” a Twitter user, @Aized10, tweeted.
It was as if he knew them before.
The APC held its primary election to field a candidate for the state governorship election scheduled for 11 November.
The state Chairman of NLC, Muritala Saheed-Olayinka, commended the state government on prompt payment of salaries, regular promotion of workers at all levels, ensuring security and provision of harmonious and conducive environment for citizenry.
The attacks have been attributed to IPOB, which is agitating for a sovereign state for the Igbo-speaking people in the south-east.
“The process is calm.
She said eight persons were involved in the accident, including seven male adults and one female adult.
“The counsel for the defendant reached out to me seeking an adjournment that he will be absent today in court,” Suleiman said.
This is our commitment to leave no one behind, and we hope other key players in the media industry in Nigeria will join us in working towards a future that truly leaves no one behind,” he said.
Mr Dada said the Nigerian government was making every effort to evacuate as many Nigerians as possible during the 72-hour window provided by the Sudanese government.
Ondo and Sokoto states recorded 28 per cent turnout each.
FG gives Supreme Court 13 grounds to block IPOB leader Nnamdi Kanu’s release
Whether I vote or not a winner will emerge,” Mr Chukwu added.
Nigerian govt inaugurates media team on Food and Nutrition
You would wonder, Mr President, how synergetic the budget process would be if President Buhari had assented to both.
The CBN should set clear and realistic targets for inflation, and a timeline for achieving these targets,” it said.
Mr Condé was removed from office by a military coup in 2021.
A mob had allegedly beaten and stoned Mr Olorunfemi to death and set his car ablaze.
Gunmen kill Delta APC chieftain
That is why I have opened my tentacle to lobbying.
The judge, Ishaq Hassan, however, gave the convict an option of N10,000 fine and warned him to desist from the crime.
President Muhammadu Buhari has urged the Senate to consider and approve the Nigerian Data Protection Bill sent to it by the Executive.
His election was later declared inconclusive.
On Wednesday, the committee released ‘evidence” involving the two ministers, particularly the alleged payment of $200 million to some consultants.
The case is still pending in court.
The defence lawyer pointed out that the judgement was erroneously based on “the police (a report that) had already found them (the two journalists) culpable long before they were invited to state their own side of the story.”
A Guinean passport with details of Nigeria’s president-elect recently surfaced on social media.
Today, the scene is far too familiar that a member of the executive that is being investigated and invited by the National Assembly would, rather than attend to the summons, rush to court and obtain an ex parte order halting his appearance.
PREMIUM TIMES reported that the Nigerian government earlier announced that it had loaned 40 buses for the evacuation.
It serves both as a celebration of the rights of workers to dignity, decent wages and decent living, and more important, it is a testament to the critical role the labour movement plays in our march towards a stronger, united and more prosperous nation.
”The defendants have made no formal application to that effect, until then in obedience to the court that the matter be heard on a weekly basis.
The Supreme Court upheld the decision of the Court of Appeal in Abuja which had earlier on 24 March affirmed Mr Adeleke’s victory.
The case also highlights how victims of sexual and domestic abuse hardly get justice and protection in Nigeria.
Though charities are registered as associations in Nigeria, the mere fact that the lawmakers adopted everything that had to do with the charity in the UK does not mean all associations in Nigeria are registered as charities.
He accused the police of possible compromise “because they have been saying they are investigating while construction still continues on the disputed land.”
Jide Ojo, a development expert, has asked the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to implement Discrimination Against Persons with Disabilities (Prohibition) Act in the deployment of ad hoc staff for elections.
The House had in December 2022 resolved to probe the alleged missing barrels of crude oil allegedly sold in China by some Nigerian officials.
Partnering with many partners, especially our Member States.
A resident, Banjo Adeoye, who spoke with journalists on Wednesday, said, “After we had something like this last year we cried out to the government but no help came.
If anything, this incident has emboldened our drive,” he said.
According to him, taking action to ensure safe roads, vehicles and behaviours and improve emergency care is paramount.
While the faction recognised by INEC is led by Julius Abure, the other one is led by Mr Apapa, the suspended deputy national chairman.
“As we work to achieve effective gas resource utilization, it is also essential to promote public awareness and education on the benefits of gas as a cleaner and more affordable source of energy.
“I welcome you at this singular moment in our nation’s history when the talents, perspectives and dedication of all political leaders are required to steer us through present challenges towards the success we desire and hopefully deserve.
“I went back to the same people of Tudun Wada, offered and presented myself.
HEDA charged political parties to rigorously vet all aspirants before allowing them to contest for positions.
The statement signed by the President of IPI Nigeria, Musikilu Mojeed, and the chair of the organisation’s  Advocacy Committee, Tobi Soniyi, added, “These violations include arrests, physical attacks, denial of access, threats, equipment damage, equipment seizure, lawsuits and high-handedness and arbitrariness by some agencies of government.”
Lagos police officers in mufti not on patrol – Official
The trial judge gave his reason for admitting the case from Nigeria as evidence and described the decision not to charge Mr RK with offences reflecting the allegations of what he did in Nigeria as “seriously flawed”.
“Full activity is yet to return to the town since the demise of Oba Adeyemi.
Enugu community protests against killing of APGA governorship aspirant
And I have a big God that is bigger than all the dollars that you can see.
“It will give the foreign media maximum penetration into the nation’s broadcast space in which negative consequences can only be imagined,” the statement said.
Mr Ogenyi said that their support was based on consideration of federal character in the zoning of the 10th senate leadership
The bank’s PE ratio is 1.8x, while the EPS is N4.84.
He established the Crescent University with all the resources he had.
We need that gas pipeline project as a major boost for our energy security.”
The incoming government should avoid the ‘97 per cent, five per cent’ sharing formula of the Buhari administration that sidelined particular ethnicity of the country.
Nigeria approves National Blockchain Policy
The president-elect, Bola Tinubu, has urged the Presidential Election Petition Court to dismiss the case filed against his victory at the 25 February poll by former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar.
In our previous reporting, PREMIUM TIMES detailed how aggrieved staff of NIPC spotlighted Ms Umar’s malfeasances, including stalling the approval of pioneer status incentives and refusing to work with other directors thereby leaving the commission prostrate.
Among those at the airport to receive him were Vice President-elect Kashim Shettima, House of Representatives Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila as well as Governors Simon Lalong (Plateau) and Abubakar Sani-Bello (Niger), former Borno State Governor Ali Modu Sheriff.
Mr Ohadoma, a 29-year-old civil engineer, reportedly grabbed the phone from his debtor, Chidiebere Ahamefula at about 9 a.m. on 9 March along the road after Mr Ahamefula repeatedly failed to pay for a project he did for him.
“He has converted his ideas about getting people to make moves of entrepreneurship as a way of developing the society,” Mr Adediran said.
Governor Wike’s spokesperson, Kelvin Ebiri, did not respond to requests for comments on the allegation that the governor sponsored Mr Melaye’s 2015 governorship campaign.
According to Mr Owuru, Mr Buhari has been illegally occupying the office of president since 2019 on the basis that the Supreme Court was yet to decide his petition filed in 2019 challenging Mr Buhari’s victory.
He noted that there is a need for unity to achieve a collective interest.
“We were all fighting for one battalion, but he died.
The Federal High Court, Abuja, on Thursday, rejected the bail application filed by Tukur Mamu, who was arrested seven months ago over his alleged relationship with terrorists that were involved in last year’s attack on a Kaduna-bound train.
The Inspector-General of Police, Usman Baba, has ordered the posting and redeployment of Assistant Inspectors-General of Police (AIGs) to departments, commands, and formations in line with his manpower development policy of fitting the right persons into appropriate roles.
The chief of staff to the governor, Tayo Ayinde, is chairman of the committee while a former commissioner for education in the state, Saidat Oladunjoye, will be his deputy.
The lawyer corroborated the views of Mr Effiong that an individual being owed can exercise the right of lien by holding onto his debtor’s property until the debtor pays him.
He added that there is a need for a “robust stakeholder consultation and adoption of proper procurement, due diligence and due process protocols are well adhered to and observed in the said concession deals and in the best national interest.”
By the provisions of the Nigerian Communication Act (NCA) 2003 and other extant Laws of the Federation, the Commission does not and cannot “track” nor “leak” telephone conversations of anyone,” it said.
While receiving the award, the FIRS Chairman appreciated ICAN’s council members for honouring him, adding that he has been lucky to work with ICAN members through his 32 year career.
Council chairman kidnapped, police orderly killed in Taraba
The suspects accused of taking part in the lynching of Mr Olorunfemi are Victor Amos, 30; Ismalia, 32; Pelumi Farotimi, 42; Nurudeen Kumuyi, 22 and Samuel Olatunji, 23.
Delivering the judgment, Mr Omotosho described the NBC’s act as being ultra vires.
Today, it is you that is on stage.
The radar, the first of nine to be supplied, was transferred on Tuesday in a Hercules plane of the Argentine Air Force which arrived in Nigeria on Thursday.
The Nigerian government has applied for the extradition of two suspects and their co-suspect accused of exploitation of minors and production of child pornography to the United States to face trial.
The state was just a little above southeastern Abia and Enugu states where turnout was 18 per cent.
Mr Fashola said his ministry sought and obtained two approvals from the council.
Mr Alake, in a rejoinder issued on Friday, said the novelist will be lucky to avoid being asked to prove her allegation in court.
In his tweets on Tuesday, Mr Obi re-emphasised his commitment to challenging the outcome of the 25 February election, urging supporters to remain calm and steadfast in the journey to reclaiming their mandate of a New Nigeria.
Acting at Mr Ponle’s direction, Individual B opened an account under the name “[Individual B] d/b/a [Victim Company B supplier]” and sent the account number, which ended in 8208, and routing number to him, the court filing stated.
Addressing the contingent, the Chief of Operations, Army, Taoreed Lagbaja, reaffirmed the commitment of Nigeria to deploy quality peacekeepers as part of its contributions to international peace and security.
We regret the inconvenience.🤲🏽🙏🏽🇳🇬🇳🇬🙏🏽🤲🏽 pic.twitter.com/BbhTX0m6Pl
“The desperation of the moles to satisfy their paymaster is beginning to threaten the nation’s peace and democracy.
She tasked the incoming government of Bola Tinubu to take cognisance of the situation and prioritise increased revenue generation.
In the audio clip, published by the online newspaper Peoples’ Gazette, Mr Obi asked Mr Oyedepo to help spread his message to Christians in the South-west and parts of North-central, describing the 2023 election as a “religious war”.
You must all think up ways to work towards building a better and united country to make it safe for all.”
When the mosquirix vaccine was approved, the WHO said it was based on results from an ongoing pilot programme in Ghana, Kenya and Malawi that has reached more than 800,000 children since 2019.
According to Civil Defence Minister Nello Musumeci, about 5,000 people were being evacuated.
Citing widespread irregularities, corrupt practices, and non-compliance with the provision of the law during the election, the petitioners urged the election petition court to either declare Atiku Nigeria’s president or order a fresh poll.
The meeting between the two men on Tuesday, at Mr Oni’s residence in Ifaki-Ekiti, lasted several hours.
“Thousands of people are left with only one month’s food supply as households in conflict-affected areas rely on minimal income to purchase food.
The lawmakers, under the aegis of the Coalition of Progressive Speakership Aspirants (COPSA), comprise Deputy Speaker Idris Wase, Muktar Betara, Sada Soli, Aminu Sani Jaji, Yusuf Gagdi and Miriam Unuoha.
She denied reports that the police officers deployed to the area ran out of ammunition to counter the attacks.
“These violent incidents were often focused in political strongholds of opposition or perceived opponents which suggest that the use of BVAS – which limits overvoting when properly used – has resulted in a more concerted effort to stymie citizens casting their votes in opponent’s strongholds.”
The event, organised by Pathfinder International with support from the MacArthur Foundation, is to demonstrate the value of partnerships in strengthening systems for health security, with the theme: “Delivering Hope: Advancing Access and Quality in COVID-19 Vaccination.”
The spokesperson said reinforcements have since been sent to the area, and that calm had been restored.
12:20pm: Mr Obi announces appearance.
On his part, a former Director General of the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency, Roland Iyayi, emphasised that there is a need for Nigeria to mine data and develop a credible database for the entire aviation industry before talking about growing the sector.
PREMIUM TIMES reported how youths in the area, angered by the gruesome killing, carried the victim’s corpse in a rolling stretcher and marched through major roads in the state capital, Asaba.
Mr Obi was recently arrested and detained briefly in London over alleged impersonation.
President Muhammadu Buhari and Abdullah bin Al-Hussein, King of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, have expressed satisfaction at the deepening of the Nigeria-Jordan strategic partnership in matters of security and other global issues.
After Mr Awo applied for an order for the extension of time to file their processes, Mr Ozekhome prayed for a consequential order deeming their further affidavit as duly filed.
Some others were believed to have been released in exchange of some of Mr Gide’s fighters who were arrested by the authorities.
“This week, we expect bullish sentiments to continue, as investors look to take advantage of fundamentally sound stocks with low pricings, with Q1-2023 earnings season already underway,” said analysts at United Capital in their outlook note seen by PREMIUM TIMES.
He stated that about 24 kilometers of the road had been completed.
Mr Mbadinuju had served as a personal assistant to a former governor of old Enugu State, Jim Nwobodo, between 1979 and 1980, before playing the same role for former Nigeria’s Head of State, Shehu Shagari, between 1980 and 1983.
“Approval was also given for award of contract for the remediation of newly identified hydrocarbon impacted sites along the shoreline of Ogoniland for N107 billion.’’
“The Council encourages all Muslims to pray fervently to the Almighty Allah, especially during the concluding part of Ramadan, for the peace, security and development of Nigeria.
He, therefore, called on the international community to impose visa and travel ban restrictions on Mr Buhari after handing over to the incoming government.
Mr Ismail maintained that his previous order of hearing the matter week by week still stood, adding that the defendants were standing trial on a criminal offence.
Neighbouring Katsina state was behind with 1.3 million votes cast.
The board disclosed this in a statement signed by its Head of Public Affairs and Protocol, Fabian Benjamin, in Abuja on Sunday.
As a government-owned investment company, the president stressed that MOFI must be supported to exercise its responsibility of achieving strong returns on investments, while also contributing to broader economic development of the country.
Bus companies were engaged in transporting the evacuees from Sudan to Aswan, Egypt, accompanied by staff of the Nigerian Embassy in Sudan, according to NEMA.
“Some of the rails that have been stolen; some of the planes that have misaligned at the ramps that lead you on and off the bridge.
The first Lady further noted that while “kinetic approaches have not been successful in ending conflicts”, she suggested other approaches to used such as “constructive engagement with wealthy individuals to create deliberate opportunities for poverty reduction,
The suits marked: FHC/ABJ/CS/123/2023 and FHC/ABJ/CS/215/2023 respectively were filed by Joshua Musa, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria.
The petition is among the five separate petitions that various political parties and their presidential candidates have filed at the Presidential Election Petition Court in Abuja to challenge the president-elect’s victory.
In a directive to the Honourable Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Otunba Richard Adeniyi Adebayo CON, the President also mandated the most senior Director in the Commission to immediately take over in the interim.
It sought to know if the provisions of the constitution do not reserve the power and function to conduct investigation into the appropriation, disbursement and or administration of its accounts to the State House of Assembly.
“…this case today is one with allegations like so many of our white collar cases, allegations that someone lied again and again to protect their interests and evade the laws to which we are all held accountable.
Mr Kanu, who initially fled the country around September 2017, pausing his trial that started in 2015, was apprehended in Kenya and brought back to Nigeria under controversial circumstances in June 2021.
Once I’m sworn in, I know that what the good people of Benue want is progress and development.
He said he never “nurtured” the idea of becoming president-general of Ohanaeze and that he had unsuccessfully sought to become Nigerian president three times.
“When he got down from the vehicle, he was justifying the action.
Cahill admitted to working with the three individuals, and acknowledged that Prof and Uzo had paid out bribes by 2007, though he said this was not done on his companies’ behalf.
The University of Ibadan occupies the fifth in Africa ranking and between 401-500th in the world; same with the University of Lagos.
It would be recalled that the Afe Babalola University, Ado-Ekiti (ABUAD) had earlier in the year appointed Professor Ozekhome, SAN, as a Visiting Professor of Law in the College of Law.
The Nigerian Council of Registered Insurance Brokers (NCRIB) on Thursday expressed regret over the collapse of a seven-storey building at Banana Island in Lagos State.
The NNPC Group Chief Executive Officer, Mele Kyari, disclosed this at the 2023 edition of the Oloibiri Lecture Series and Energy Forum held in Abuja on Thursday.
“I asked him what have I done, he said he was a very dangerous man.
Osinbajo, Obasanjo, Osoba, others present at Bola Ajibola’s burial
A national daily, New Telegraph, had reported that Mr Gbajabiamila is working for the emergence of Mr Abbas.
The court’s panel comprised John Okoro, Ibrahim Saulawa, Uwani Abba-Aji, Tijjani Abubakar and Emmanuel Agim.
NAN reports that the interactions also delved into economy and foreign affairs.
The Council also received the NSIA Consolidated & separate financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2022 which were presented by a representative of the PWC who authored the statements.
He stated that the ruling party only won a single local government area during the presidential election in Kaduna State.
“All returnees will be profiled, catered for and provided with post-trauma treatment and counselling and liaise with the federal ministry of education for the continuation of their studies in Nigeria,” NiDCOM added.
“A newspaper report and rumours have it that talks are on to stop the party from going to the tribunal.
“Preliminary Investigation reveals that the Patrol team while acting on credible intelligence through visible policing duties, extended their presence around major black spots, highways and major roads under Akinyele Local Government Area Axis in a bid to deter criminal elements from settling and establishing dominance within the location.
Seven people were injured while six others died.
"The removal of illegal structures is also scheduled to be carried out at all other airports that have similar challenges,” it said.
PSC commends IGP over order to arrest Seun Kuti for assaulting policeman
They charged the management of NDDC to chart a new course and partner with the various state governments and other relevant bodies to deliver impactful projects for the region.
Realwan Akpanachi and Yahaya Seidu-Nuhu, in an originating Summons filed by their counsel, Promise Ogbodu, sued six of the contestants as 1st – 6th defendants.
These candidates, according to him, are those who registered for the 2023 UTME without manifesting any biometric difficulty but could not be verified on the day of the examination.
Mr Kyari noted that Nigeria’s huge natural gas reserves provide the nation with ready access to low-carbon energy to address energy poverty.
“The cost of Jet A1 fuel is a major problem because it has tripled…,” he said.
This is why we will continue to embark on a series of reforms to boost your morale and productivity, ensuring the right incentives and enabling the environment to deliver quality service to the Edo people.
Mr Akpabio is one of the contenders for the office of the Senate president in the 10th National Assembly.
Five other persons were also injured in the crash that occurred around Saiten Petrol Station, along the Abeokuta-Lagos highway on Tuesday night.
Others, he said, were the Elimination of Discrimination in respect of Employment and Occupation, and a Safe and Healthy Working Environment.
In your mercy grant eternal rest to those who have died and give us the strength to start again.
I will work with the executives to ensure that we bring good governance to the people and ensure that good policies of the Executive do not get truncated by a National Assembly that is not working in sync with the mandate of delivering the dividends of democracy to Nigerians.
Mr Adio is also one of Nigeria’s leading columnists.
“The airport is named after Buhari as approved by the House of Assembly and if you say he is not good to you, he is to me and Ebonyi.
The appointment takes effect from April 1, 2023.
*Moses Ugo, Kano Division (57)
Atiku said that he was challenging the declaration of Tinubu as president-elect on the grounds that Tinubu and APC did not win majority of the lawful votes cast in the Feb. 25 presidential election.
Another local government civil servant in Talata Mafara said he has since stopped expecting his salaries.
Earlier in his opening remarks, Fred Agbedi (PDP, Bayelsa), said the meeting was convened to deliberate on the National Assembly leadership.
It could also debunk the myths surrounding the animals’ medicinal properties, which would decrease demand.
She said it had been decided at the Transition Council with members from the Buhari administration and the incoming administration that the fuel subsidy would not be removed during the transition period.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Binani, in the motion ex-parte marked: FHC/ABJ/CS/510/2023, is suing INEC, the People Democratic Party (PDP) and its candidate, Governor Ahmadu Fintiri as 1st, 2nd and 3rd respondents respectively.
Mr Lawan said the 9th assembly had successfully passed many critical bills that had become jinxed under the previous assembly.
The group’s position is against the proposal of the Progressives Governors Forum (PGF) that the president of the 10th Senate should be a Christian.
The certified true copies of the Units’ results in Ward 4 shall be relied upon at the trial of this Petition,” the petitioners’ lawyers wrote.
“He is a bishop of so many branches and if granted bail, he may use his position to influence the prosecution witnesses as he is regarded as a man of authority who has the possibility of committing the same crime.
Party agents were reported to be directing people who to vote for while those unwilling to do as directed were denied ballot papers and forced to leave the polling units.”
The Ijaw Youth Congress (IYC) had on Monday alleged that SPDC had excluded indigenous players from its operations at the EA fields in breach of the community content guidelines.
“The sentence of 22 months imprisonment will be quashed and replaced by a sentence of three years imprisonment,” the Court of Appeal ordered in its judgement delivered on 22 December 2022.
The government also shut down schools in the town, with the state government explaining that the security of the children is of utmost importance.
The school also bans ponorgraphic materials.
Even the former President, Olusegun Obasanjo, was not even available, I think he was somewhere else, I think Yola, when he became President,” he added.
The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (NCDC) also transitioned from weekly updates to biweekly situation reports of the pandemic.
Both Atiku and Mr Obi, who came second and third, respectively, have rejected the outcome of the 25 February presidential election.
Mr Abati described the AGF’s office as one of the “most powerful, demanding and sensitive public offices in the country.”
Mr Adetokunbo said the state government invested heavily in peace and security, capital investment, health, and education and has created the enabling environment for businesses to thrive.
“We were here around a few minutes after 8 a.m.
A Sudanese army spokesman said in a statement on Saturday that the United States, Britain, France, and China would begin evacuating from the capital Khartoum “in the coming hours” using military transport aircraft.
He, therefore, argued that the petition was improperly constituted and prayed the court to dismiss it.
He then made an oral application for the bail of the defendants to be revoked.
“The business of the selection of our leaders should be solely our business.
“It is imperative to state that the reckless violation by INEC of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended), the Electoral Act, 2022, INEC Guidelines and Manual in the 2023 Presidential election portend grave consequences to our democracy and political stability as a country.
Senate Presidency: Contest will be based on constitutional provisions – Aspirant
The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) conducted elections into seven districts declared inconclusive on 25 February.
While most of the workers have not been paid since February, few others said they have not received salaries since December.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Akande-Sadipe is currently representing the Oluyole Federal Constituency at the House.
The Aviation minister says the aviation roadmap is gradually coming to 100 % completion
Davido’s anticipated comeback concert, held on Sunday night at the Tafawa Balewa Square (TBS), was one for the books.
Meanwhile, the university’s Vice-Chancellor, Muhammad Umar, a professor, has also approved the appointment of other individuals into various positions in the institution.
The development echoed the ordeal of many companies in corporate Nigeria, where a prolonged dollar scarcity is pushing import-dependent businesses to the brink.
He clarified that LP was given some electoral documents in Rivers, “but they insisted on collecting all the documents that were required.
I am an estate surveyor and a chartered surveyor and with a Masters in environment planning and protection, and a post graduate degree in peace studies and conflict resolution.
“These are the two federal agencies that have been culpable for those extensions.
The Federal Executive Council (FEC) has approved the sum of N49 billion being the revised sum for the old Enugu-Onitsha road project.
He stated that the people of Kano and the larger North-west region are supporting Mr Jibrin to become the next President of the Senate because they believe in his capacity and capability to steer the wheel of the federal parliament towards the path of growth and stability.
Chinwoke Mbadinuju, a former governor of Anambra State, is dead.
“Nigeria has since the 1960s contributed troops to different peace support operations ranging from the Congo, Yugoslavia and Lebanon, amongst others.
”Betara’s campaign and consultation with the president-elect is one out of many consultation he had embarked upon in the last three months ahead of the June inauguration.
The bank is not aware of the criteria used in picking/selecting the beneficiaries of the Amnesty stipends.
For instance, the APC was unable to get 25 per cent of the votes cast in any of the five states in the South-east in the presidential election.
“We had three sessions, the first one was for eight.
There was a heavy presence of security agents at strategic points in the area to prevent a breakdown of law and order as unionists chanted solidarity songs.
He said the team, with support from other nutrition stakeholders, will develop a National Nutrition Media Strategy, engage in continuous public nutrition literacy, and follow up on all issues relating to nutrition reporting, monitoring, and evaluation processes.
Besides, according to the Electoral Act, the returning officer and not the REC, has the responsibility to declare results of the elections.
“Human intelligence sources subsequently alerted the Kaduna State Government for immediate evacuation”, the Kaduna government statement said.
INEC said the issues in question were about facts, the law and due process not amenable to hysteria and appeal to sentiments.
This is similar to the same way and manner her party and candidate orchestrated polls to pre-empt the outcome of an election they knew they could never win, as they planked their electioneering and campaign activities on tribal and other ethnocentric and religious sentiments.
The lawmaker was involved in a violent confrontation between members of the New Nigeria People Party (NNPP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC) that led to the killing of three people and the burning of a campaign office of the opposition party in the Tudun Wada Local Government Area of Kano.
To the glory of God Almighty, I am pleased to announce the release and return of Mr Okey Wali, SAN to his family.
“…from the little that I was told about the late Maihanci, the Taraba politician was one Nigerian who was ready to serve his people diligently,” he said.
They submitted two issues in their final written address before the court.
However, another parent, Hemen Desmond, claimed the candidates who were to take the test by 9 a.m. did not start early.
They said Woodberry and his co-schemers “were engaged in a business email compromise scheme targeting Victim Company B and other companies which resulted in a fraudulent wire of approximately $188,191.50 to a bank account.”
“I listened to my mentors and though I have just a first degree in engineering, I can debate favourably with a professor in the field,’’ he said.
It noted that Nigeria had gained significantly from the Middle eastern kingdom by way of support for pre-emptive measures to neutralise the activities of insurgents in the sub-region.
Local sources said the assailants, suspected to be errand boys of land grabbers, ambushed the police patrol team, opened fire on it, killed one on the spot and escaped with his rifle.
“For all these reasons and more, the world needs WHO now more than ever,’’ he said.
Similarly, in Uganda, 57 per cent of lawyers in the public sector are female, with 62 per cent represented at a senior level.
The case of Glano Nigeria Limited and its promoter has been a protracted issue because the loan was purchased during the third phase of Eligible Bank Assets (EBA) from United Bank for Africa (UBA) Plc way back in 2013.
The five-member panel led by Haruna Tsammani said this at the inaugural sitting of the panel.
Mr Obasanjo, while addressing journalists in Abuja on Saturday, appealed to the federal lawmakers-elect to support the nominations of the APC.
Nigeria’s secret police, the SSS, were involved in tracking the victim’s location, the police said.
So, the parliament enacted a law that empowered a committee to take over the statutory powers of the court.
A recent court judgment whittles down the power of CAC over charity and religious organisations after striking down eight sections of CAMA 2020.
FEC approves N49bn revised sum for Enugu-Anambra link road
The parties committed to a new 24-hour truce on Wednesday, also beginning at 6 pm local time, but some international media reported that shelling had continued.
He said these are blueprints to guide and enhance nutrition security both at national and sub-national levels.
Some of us have been at it for quite a while I am well aware that the foregoing is further invitation for more nauseous bilge from the besotted.
His Instagram account, his flagship platform for flaunting his expensive lifestyle, has since been closed at the request of the US government.
A factional national chairman of the Labour Party (LP), Lamidi Apapa, on Wednesday, confronted the Director General of Peter Obi’s presidential campaign council, Akin Osuntokun, at the Presidential Election Petition Court in Abuja.
Many schools in the region were shuttered — and remain closed — due to rising insecurity.
Mr Echono said that each of the six beneficiary universities would get N3 billion, while each of the six selected polytechnics and six colleges of education would receive N1 billion.
“After my course, Mr Abdulwahab (NCS officer) came to visit me and I told him my plans, assuring him that we would make money and he agreed to join me.
The suspect has confessed that he strangled the victim to death and buried him in a shallow grave in a bush, according to the police.
The gubernatorial election was keenly contested by the incumbent, Bala Mohammed of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), who scored 525,280 to defeat Sadique – Baba Abubakar of the APC who polled 432,272 votes.
The Police Service Commission (PSC) has approved the dismissal of three police officers and reduction in rank of five others.
Governor Wike disclosed this in a state-wide broadcast which lasted for 167 seconds.
In his presentation, Yarama Ndirpaya, director of the Agricultural Research Council of Nigeria, said Nigeria is facing a feed and food security crisis that is compounded by the COVID-19 global pandemic and its effects on the food value chain in the country.
LABOUR PARTY RESPONDS TO PRESIDENT MUHAMMADU BUHARI SAYS LP WON 2023 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION BUT WAS STOLEN AND PRESIDENT BUHARI IS AWARE OF THE TRUTH.
He assured the lawmakers that the party’s leadership would go through their memo to address issues contained in it.
ENHRI told the ECOWAS Court that NBC arbitrarily issued letters of alleged violation of the code on broadcasters, while also imposing sanctions, thereby acting as complainant and judge.
A family source, who identified himself simply as Ginikanwa, on Monday, narrated to the newspaper how the victim was abducted.
Gift Ukeh Adie (Paul E Football Academy)
It is very sad and wicked the attempts to manipulate Nigerians.
He said it was after additional three weeks that the police came to the community with the boy, arrested the sister who had gone to pick up the boy from the bus stop and forced her to take them to their family house in order to arrest her brother.
Mr Gemade served as a minister and later the national chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).
“They have made the return to that site easier and possible for our contractors.
“I have been counting the years.
He listed some of the suspended party members to include Messrs Akingbade, Gbenga Daramola, Anselem Eragbe and Abayomi Arabambi.
The EFCC urged the court to discountenance Mr Yakubu’s application and uphold its preliminary objection in the interest of justice.
Nigeria’s secret police, the SSS, were involved in tracking the victim’s location, the police say.
“Hold the fire until the last word is heard from us, we are the custodians of the party as NWC, but we are not acting alone.
It seeks to remove transitional lawmaking powers of the executive.
Zangon Kataf in Southern Kaduna is experiencing an upsurge of attacks by terrorists
Twenty-three years later (2015), she filed a motion with the immigration court to reopen her case, which the immigration judge granted, “because she did not receive notice of her original hearing.”
The elders said they have resolved to formally petition Mr Buhari to express their “sadness and disappointment” over the attacks.
The offence is said to be punishable under 1(2)(h) of the Terrorism Prevention Amendment Act 2013.
In another incident within the same period, one WFP-managed UN Humanitarian Air Service (UNHAS) aircraft was also significantly damaged at Khartoum International Airport during an exchange of gunfire on Saturday, seriously impacting WFP’s ability to move humanitarian workers and aid within the country.
Other appointments include Abdulhakim Ibrahim as acting Director, Management Information System, and Armaya’u Saad as the Deputy Director.
But the apex court upheld the decision of the appellate court and ordered that the case be sent back to the Chief Judge of the Federal High Court for reassignment to another judge.
Tayo Bamgbose-Martins was immediately on site to assess the situation and flag- off investigation.
President Muhammadu Buhari on Monday said the actualisation of the Petroleum Industry Act (PIA) 2021 is the second biggest achievement in the country’s energy sector.
Cast: Bisola Aiyeola, Burundi Adeaga, Kachi Nnochiri, Emmanuel Ikubese, and Bolaji Ogunmola
The Federal University Birnin Kebbi (FUBK) has announced the appointment of Aliyu Abdullahi, a professor, as the new Deputy Vice-Chancellor.
Governors elected on the platform of Nigeria’s ruling party, All Progressives Congress (APC), had claimed in a memo to the President-elect, Bola Tinubu, that two aspirants to the positions were offering bribe.
Supplementary: INEC conducts Kebbi, Adamawa governorship, 93 Legislative elections across 24 states
The APC on Sunday used its verified Twitter account to post a congratulatory message to Mrs Dahiru, popularly called Binani, who was “illegally” declared as the winner of the governorship election, even though the collation process was still ongoing.
His work signifies the high regard in which he is held by leaders and members in his field throughout the nation, says the Academy.
AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq of Kwara State has renewed his commitment to prioritise workers welfare in the state.
Since he was caught on tape declaring the 2023 presidential election a "religious war", Mr Obi had remained silent on social media, leaving his aides to address the matter.
Among the people who received the beautiful birds at the Uyo airport were the Coordinator of the South-South Tourism Roundtable Steering Committee, Piriye Kiyaramo, who is also the Senior Special Assistant to Bayelsa State Governor on Tourism, and the pioneer chairperson, Federation of Tourism Associations of Nigeria, in Akwa Ibom State, Usen Udoh.
“Basic requirements for accountability as enshrined in the party’s constitution are being violated,” he said.
However, Mr Obasanjo has written to the clerk of the court, urging him and the UK government to show leniency to the Ekweremadus for the sake of their sick daughter who was the intended beneficiary of the organ for a kidney transplant.
“As we look forward to its rollout soon.
Mrs Buhari will cease to be Nigeria’s First Lady as from 29 May when her husband, Muhammadu Buhari, will leave office as President after a two-term tenure of eight years.
“Sometimes as humans, we make mistakes but I will never knowingly break any law,” Mr Obi said in a series of tweets posted on his official Twitter handle on Tuesday.
The release of the three pupils followed the release of four other pupils two weeks ago after the terrorist was paid N80 million.
Mr. Ridley also noted that the organisation was also interested in the commission’s role in police oversight and accountability and to explore opportunities for collaboration.
Mr Obi has been repeatedly and categorically told that he has a choice to leave the country or face the prospect of being arrested on false charges of inciting insurrection in the country.
For me, I will deploy tact and diplomacy, engagement and jaw-jaw.
The electoral commission, INEC, on Tuesday, released the list of the 24 members-elect of the Enugu State House of Assembly.
Justice Inyang Ekwo, in a ruling on Wednesday, ordered Isaac Oguche, counsel that appeared for the commercial bank, to put the respondents on notice within seven days of the order.
* One (1) gold and diamond-studded necklace
It said the detection of ethylene oxide in the product did not comply with standards.
“Significant numbers of new fighting and utility vehicles, along with artillery guns, machine guns, rifles and correspondent ammunition were acquired and inducted into various theatres of operations.
“It is a double whammy for economic players to contend with a regime of high import duty, and prohibitive tax rates amid a depreciating currency,” he said.
“I believe the 10th Assembly deserves a leadership sensitive to the needs of members and serves all without any discrimination.
The 64-year-old Senior Advocate of Nigeria was kidnapped along East-West Road in Obio/Akpor Local Government Area of Rivers State on 17 April.
Customs intercepts contraband worth N2.8bn in Owerri zone
The executive has the right to nominate people and the House has the responsibility to either confirm or reject such nominations.
The commissioner also hinted that her ministry would embark on media sensitisation programme to educate and enlighten residents of the state about the dangers and negative consequences of rape, child molestation, child labour and child abuse among others.
Cahill claimed never to have acceded to Alimi’s request for bribe money, as Nigeria alleged he did.
NAN observed that other Muslim faithful in attendance include the Speaker, House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila; Majority Leader of the House of Representatives, Alhassan Doguwa and National Security Adviser, Babagana Monguno.
He is survived by his wife, children, grandchildren and political family.
“I call on Nigerians in the areas slated for the polls to conduct themselves peacefully and eschew violence and any act prejudicial to orderly electoral processes,” Mr Tinubu said.
He queried whether any disbursement was made out of the initial 22.7 billion dollars.
Mr Sanwo-Olu made the announcement on Sunday via his Twitter handle.
PRESIDENT BUHARI ACHIEVEMENTS, BEST RESPONSE TO PUNCH’S ADVERSITY
Read the full statement below:
“We, therefore, call for the boycott of his books, articles, events and all public engagements that celebrate his literary achievements which as of today do not recognize the well-being of the ordinary Nigerian.
Mr Carson, an Executive Officer of the United States Institute of Peace (USIP), spoke in Washington DC when the Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, paid an official visit to the institute to engage on the concluded elections.
Ali Ahmad says the constitution amendment bills the president declined assent to would have strengthened the National Assembly as an institution.
However, Mr Kanu blamed his absence from court on the Nigerian military’s invasion of his home in Abia State.
Mr Oyebanji said the appointee would be someone with the requisite knowledge in special education and who has a genuine passion for the welfare and well-being of the physically challenged.
The rate represents a N 1.00 or 0.22 per cent depreciation as against N462.25 posted in the previous market session on Monday.
The assailants escaped with the rifle of the slain officer.
He said if the question was answered in the affirmative, whether the EFCC ought to still have in its custody his seized monies after a sister court gave a judgment in his favour on 31 March 2022.
FG shuts Apapa-bound lane of Marine Bridge
The bus drivers embarked on one-man riots because Nigerian officials were penny-pinching the payment for their services.
For clarity, let me highlight those 7 Bills.
Mr Umar reiterated the dangers of speeding, especially during the rainy season when visibility is poor, advising motorists to drive defensively and obey traffic rules and regulations.
Meanwhile, the magistrate has also invited the parents of the late student to testify before the court on 17 April.
Mr Benjamin said while the board cannot promise Nigerians that technical hitches will not be experienced, he assured that all candidates who registered for the exams will be given the opportunity to take the tests.
Punch reported that the APC deputy chairman (North), Abubakar Kyar, in a letter to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) stated that the party will adopt direct primary.
The governors in attendance in addition to Kebbi were from Plateau, Imo, Kwara, Ekiti, Kaduna, Kogi, Lagos, Cross Rivers, Jigawa, Katsina, Ogun and Nasarawa States.
He said Mr Idris polled 409,225 votes to defeat his closest contestant, Aminu Bande of PDP who scored 360,940 votes, while Udu Idris of People’s Redemption Party, scored 3,103 votes.
This unfortunate incident happened while casting was being done.
Officials of the presidency include the president, vice president and some other aides appointed by the president while FEC members include the president, vice president and ministers.
The LP candidate polled a total of 252, 738 votes to defeat Mr Tinubu of the APC in Ebonyi State.
NiMet`s weather outlook released in Abuja on Sunday forecast a sunny atmosphere on Sunday with few patches of clouds over the northern region.
In January, the union through its lawyer, Elisha Kurah, had argued that a state cannot interfere in the affairs of a trade union registered under the Trade Unions Act of 2004.
Many groups, including Nigeria’s main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), have demanded the arrest and prosecution of the Adamawa REC.
Responding, Sabinus Nwankwegu, chairman of the Public Complaints and Anti-Corruption Commission, pledged to justify the confidence reposed in members by the governor.
“Why am I elected in the National Assembly?
Our mattresses and chairs were destroyed.
For the avoidance of doubt, Governor Samuel Ortom was elected in 2015 and re-elected in 2019 to defend the interest of the people of Benue and never to be a lackey in the hands of expansionists using every means to perpetrate evil against the Benue citizens.
He said the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic reiterated the importance of the PHC system and the role that agencies like NPHCDA play in ensuring widespread access to quality health care.
The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, says the House will investigate the hard diplomatic stance of the Egyptian authorities in denying access to Nigerians fleeing war-ravaged Sudan.
Meanwhile, the LP has denied reports that the UK government had apologised to Mr Obi over his “arrest”, “detention” and “harassment” at the London airport as claimed by his party in the statement.
Post Humous Award certificates were also presented to the Comptroller, Tariff & Trade, Nigeria Customs Service, Anthony Ayalogu; and the Deputy Director & Zonal Coordinator (Kebbi, Sokoto & Zamfara), Adamu Kudu.
The VP, who conveyed President Muhammadu Buhari’s appreciation to members of the council and every stakeholder that has made the PEBEC success story possible, recalled that the president had charged the council “with positively impacting Nigeria’s business environment by removing the bureaucratic constraints being experienced by a large number of stakeholders.”
Quoting the police report, the minister said there were 489 cases of electoral infractions during the election and 781 electoral offenders that would be charged in court.
He said four of the aggrieved aspirants held a meeting where they agreed to challenge Mr Abbas.
FG says fuel subsidy removal not suspended, expands committee
In a plausible alternative, the IMF said scenario with further financial sector stress, global growth declines to about 2.5 per cent in 2023, the weakest growth since the global downturn of 2001, barring the initial COVID-19 crisis in 2020 and during the global financial crisis in 2009 with advanced economic growth falling below 1 per cent.
About 5,500 Nigerian students in Sudan will be evacuated due to the violence in the North African country, an official has said.
The action puts to rest a knotty labour dispute between Seplat Energy and a couple of its staff, which was blown out of proportion to involve the immigration service and spawned at least two different lawsuits.
He will function as the chairperson of the board.
She also identified the shortage of qualified health workers; inadequate access to quality medicines, medical products, and innovative technologies as part of the causes of the health crisis on the continent.
According to him, the report quoted one Chijioke Okonkwo, as making the claim in a petition on behalf of some aggrieved senior police officers.
Mr Baba, on his part, has ordered the removal of the Commissioner of Police on election duty in Adamawa State, Mohammed Barde, over his alleged role in the illegal declaration of Mrs Dahiru, as the winner of the state governorship election on Sunday.
Nigerian politician Ike Ekweremadu, wife jailed in UK for organ trafficking
Temiloluwa Oluwayimika Adelakin (Box2Box Academy)
The Court leaves Liberia for Finland Friday.
“That it be determined that the 2nd respondent (Tinubu), having failed to score one-quarter of the votes cast at the presidential election in the FCT was not entitled to be declared and returned as the winner of the presidential election held on Feb. 25.”
He said former President Goodluck Jonathan lost control of his administration the day Aminu Tambuwal emerged as the speaker.
A patient, who also declined to disclose his identity, was about to leave the hospital premises and said he could no longer wait to be attended to, saying: “I have been waiting for hours, yet no one to attend to me.
“This is for research and capacity development of paramilitary agencies and other relevant stakeholders both within and Nigeria.
Ms Bala Usman was suspended from office in May 2021 following allegation of the NPA’s’s non-remittance of about N165bn operating surpluses into the Consolidated Revenue Fund Account of the federation.
At least 74 people were killed last month following clashes that erupted between farmers and herders in different communities in the state.
I look forward to joining the celebrations and bringing Afrobeats to Windsor Castle for the first time”, Tiwa said.
Mr Evuti said that the board would commence the second phase of the education and orientation exercise for intending pilgrims on 29 April to 30 April.
He further held that the NBC Code, which gives the commission the power to impose sanction, is in conflict with Section 6 of the Constitution that vested judicial power in the court of law.
In an April 30 statement by the security task force, authorities accused Gobeze and 46 others of involvement in terrorism in Amhara regional state.
The governors he picked tended to be former directors of companies owned by Tinubu or his son.
According to him, the 116kms Lagos to Ibadan will also be handed over to the government on 30 April, while the Loko-Oweto bridge linking Nasarawa and Benue States and the Utor bridge in Delta had been completed.
Academy President David W. Oxtoby and Chair of the Board of Directors Nancy C. Andrews made the announcement of the 2023 list of recipients of the honours.
Five of them – Moses Igbrude, Ajani Abidoye, Sarat Kudaisi, Robert Ibekwe and Kenneth Nnabike – last month secured an interim order from a Federal High Court based in Lagos prohibiting the CEO from running the firm.
“Since emerging as the “Greater Majority,” with a combined Members-Elect tally of 183, as against the APC’s total of 177, history beckons on us to constructively, and creatively, chart the path towards the deepening of our nation’s democracy,” they said.
Some of the men at the meeting include Deputy Speaker Idris Wase (APC, Plateau), Yusuf Gagdi (APC, Plateau), Muktar Betara (APC, Borno), Ben Kalu (APC, Abia), Sada Soli (APC, Katsina), Tunji Olawuyi (APC, Kwara) and Abubakar Makki (APC, Jigawa).
Paradoxically, while Europe should be tapping into Africa’s young labour force for an economic stimulus, African migration is considered politically unpalatable.
A security source said that several dozen militants were killed during a reprisal attack.
Whether you rely on WhatsApp for all your messaging needs or just use it from time to time, it is recommended to set it up with two-factor authentication (2FA),” he said.
NAN reports that the police spokesperson could, however, not confirm whether the driver was an internet fraudster (NAN)
Top Trending ‘How to’ Questions from January to March 2023
Ahead of the coronation, the Commonwealth Secretariat will take advantage of the gathering of leaders in London to host a Commonwealth Summit for Presidents and Heads of Government of Commonwealth countries on Friday, May 5.
The new registrar holds a Bachelors of Arts and Masters of Arts in English Language.
The Chairman of Ilaje Local Government Area of Ondo State, Goke Ojatuwase, has appealed for the resettlement of residents of Ayetoro, following the incursion of the ocean into the community.
Agora Policy urged the government to reopen all closed borders and remove all food trade restrictions.
Kogi 2023: APC adopts direct primary
But a member of the Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Chinedu Ugwa, told PREMIUM TIMES that Mr Iwuanyanwu was confirmed Ohanaeze Ndigbo president-general because there was no dissenting voice against his emergence at the meeting.
We are tired of life.
Qosim Suleiman is a reporter at Premium Times in partnership with Report for the World, which matches local newsrooms with talented emerging journalists to report on under-covered issues around the globe
That year, they stunned then Soviet Union 1-0 through a well-taken goal by Tarila Okorowanta in Monterrey but then lost 0-3 to Brazil in their second game in Guadalajara.
The governor promised to “handsomely” reward anybody who provides such information to the security agencies.
The G5 said their opposition to Atiku was majorly because of their belief that the next Nigerian president ought to have come from the south, since the current President Muhammadu Buhari is from the north.
Mrs Adeh said the Commissioner of Police (CP) in charge of the FCT, Haruna Garba, has called for cooperation from FCT residents.
Most of the students interviewed regretted the war situation in Sudan and thanked the Federal Government for coming promptly to their rescue.
The CDC explained on its website that the time between infection and the appearance of symptoms of the disease is three to 21 days.
The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has retained its growth forecast for the Nigerian economy in 2023 at 3.2 per cent.
” The 168 houses at Sheikh Ja’afar Mahmud Adam Bandirawo City are made up of 55 Units of 2-bedroom semi-detached houses; 51 Units of 3-bedroom houses; 7 Units of 3-bedroom converted; 17 Units of 3-bedroom Carport; 3 Units of 4-bedroom Duplex; 9 Units of 5-bedroom Duplex and 22 Units of 3-bedroom Green-roof”, the anti-graft agency said.
He said that Islamic scholars and relevant stakeholders have already been mobilised for the exercise scheduled to take place from 8 a.m. on April 30.
The lawyer, Tope Temokun, in his petition, said the farmers had been in the location for over two decades and were duly registered with the government.
“The comparison of the second respondent (Tinubu) with the first petitioner ( Atiku) who had attained the eminent position of Vice President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria for eight years is totally unfounded,” he said.
He said the management may likely discharge some patients because of the ongoing strike.
“When we re-visited gas leak sites six months later, leaks continued, in spite of visible attempts to patch them up.
Ogun Assembly workers issue Governor Abiodun 16 days ultimatum
Dangote Refinery appears on the list for currently trading significantly below its intrinsic value, meaning it has prospects of appreciating considerably in the short term.
The PDP presidential candidate, amongst other things, alleged that Tinubu was unfit to lead Nigeria having been indicted for drug related offences in the United States and made to forfeit a sum of 460,000 dollars as a compromise agreement.
Importation of Indomie noodles remains banned in Nigeria- NAFDAC
He was immediately joined by the Jigawa State Governor Badaru Abubakar who said “All of us” share the sentiments expressed by Governor El-Rufai.
PUNCH SHOULD STOP LIVING IN DENIAL
The 10th National Assembly will be inaugurated in June.
In the northeast, the six states were shared between the APC and the PDP.
The Deepfakes App is online deepfake software that works in the cloud.
He noted that the theme of this year’s outreach, “Think Good and Speak Good” is to help young women think beyond their reach and speak well.
According to the Special Adviser to the President on Ease of Doing Business, Jumoke Oduwole, the award is given to the individual “who went over and above the call of duty in the course of supporting the delivery of reforms for MSMEs operating in Nigeria, making it an easier place to start and grow a business.”
She also sought an order of prohibition preventing INEC and its agents from taking any further steps towards the declaration of the winner of the elections pending the determination of her application for judicial review.
Speaking on the legacy Mr Buhari will be leaving behind, Mr Gambari noted that apart from free and fair elections he conducted, the people of the country would remember him for his fighting against corruption, agriculture revolution which has started making Nigerians eat what they are producing.
These days, Nollywood filmmakers boldly explore sex scenes and plots.
Mr Aregbesola urged Christians to emulate the virtues of sacrifice, togetherness, forgiveness, kindness, love peace and patience which were attributes and practices of Jesus Christ, as exemplified by His ministry on the earth.
The amendment brought in an official of the Supreme Court, Adebisi Ogunseye, as a co-defendant.
Some political parties including the PDP and Labour Party and PDP are separately challenging the outcome of the 25 February presidential election on the allegations that results were manipulated in favour of the All Progressives Congress (APC).
Mr Ndukwe also said the body of the victim has since been exhumed and deposited in the mortuary for preservation and autopsy.
“47 countries have eliminated at least one neglected tropical disease,” he said.
“So, because of the new Lekki Deep Sea Port and the Dangote Jetty, the need has arisen for a company that can carry out towage services to make things a lot easier and more effortless in the ports.
If you permit, let me remind you that the late Senator Joseph Wayas was the first to champion the cause of negating a presidential veto when President Shehu Shagari, of blessed memory, refused to assent to the National Assembly Commission Establishment Act in 1980.
“The president, ministers and others cannot shut themselves out.
The minister also explained that the contractors are also being encouraged to ensure that the final challenging phase of the Lagos-Ibadan expressway reconstruction work are concluded as soon as possible.
“I resolve this issue against the Attorney General, in favour of SERAP.
“This is so disgusting.
Giving reasons for the withdrawal of the amended charge, Mr Rimamsomte explained that the police intended to present Mrs Adebisi as a prosecution witness.
The 2023 school-based West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE) will hold for seven weeks, spanning 8 May to 23 June.
Mr Déby-Itno in turn described the situation as worrisome.
HUDU YUNUSA ARI, REC, ADAMAWA STATE
Mr Oyeyemi added that on sighting the contigent, the robbers engaged them in a gun battle.
Nigerian stocks advanced for the first time this week on Thursday after the main equity index added 0.2 per cent on the back of continued brisk trade in the shares of Access Holdings.
In 2022, the workers, mostly in their 60s, took to the streets twice over similar treatment.
President Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey has congratulated Bola Tinubu on his victory in the 25 February presidential election.
“Persons with psychosocial disabilities and their representative organisations know what is best for us and our community.
He said the commission did not comply with the law when it sat as a complainant and, at the same time, the court and the judge on its own matter.
Access Corporation’s shares of 219.4 million units, priced at N2.3 billion, exchanged hands in 930 transactions.
She said the disease was once endemic across most of the world, sweeping through the Americas in the 1600s and reaching as far north as the Arctic coast and east as Japan.
A phone would be smashed, and the owner would not report to the police that is less than 50meters away?”
The All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate, Hyacinth Alia, won the election.
The House of Representatives had on Tuesday during plenary pleaded with the UK government to temper justice with mercy in Mr Ekweremadu’s case.
The group agreed to send a high-level delegation led by Salva Kiir Mayardit; President of the Republic of South Sudan; and composed of William Ruto, President of the Republic of Kenya; and Ismail Guelleh, President of the Republic of Djibouti; to Khartoum at the earliest time possible to engage the two leaders to resume negotiations on all outstanding issues including security and military reform, and report back to the Assembly.
Without warning, thugs and supporters of the PDP descended on our Party officials, inflicting severe and life-threatening injuries on them, and damaging personal and party properties.
Mr Balogun said this was part of the highlights of the inter-ministerial briefing on the return of the fourth batch of evacuees from Sudan at the Hajj Terminal of the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport.
The Nigerian Labour Movement was also not found wanting during our struggle for the restoration of democracy.
Mr Tambuwal recently won the Sokoto South senatorial seat in the National Assembly on the platform of the PDP.
The FRSC Sector Commander in the state, Abdullahi Hassan, confirmed the incident in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Saturday in Calabar.
The slain man, Onyeka Ibe, was shot dead on 5 April allegedly by Mr Ebri while the police were on stop-and-search duty along Ugbolu-Illah Road in the state.
REVEALED: Results on INEC portal show Peter Obi, not Tinubu, won in Rivers
Mr Ojo made the call on Friday during a Twitter space organised by Inclusive Friends Association (IFA) and titled: 2023 elections and PWD candidates experience sharing: exploring myth, challenges and solutions.”
We have to ensure that anger does not hold us prisoners.
When asked by the Judge if the case before Justice Buba involves money laundering, Sulaiman responded that the facts “are not the same, but the offence, which he was convicted for and pardoned, is also money laundering.”
“They have been duly regularised,” the statement added.
According to him, the Free Trade Zones scheme has been able to turn the tide of economic development in different nations.
“He had served creditably well in all the offices he occupied to the admiration of the public.
“On November 8th 2022, the judge became fed up with the complainant and threatened to strike out the matter for lack of diligent prosecution, if not for the severity of the offence.”
APC Governors endorse Akpabio for Senate President – Ganduje
Please rest assured of my highest regards always.
Ms Mueller said this is equivalent to investing in sexual and reproductive health as an essential investment in sustainable development and in delivering a world where every woman, girl, and young person can live up to their full potential.
Mr Sirika gave the assurance while briefing State House correspondents on the outcome of the Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting in Abuja on Wednesday.
The police in Kaduna State said its officers killed a terrorist and recovered a motorcycle in Kidandan village in Giwa Local Government.
He expressed optimism that the senator-elect who participated in the sixth Senate would by the Grace of God emerge as president of the Senate.
“More alarming are allegations in the public space of attempts by certain APC leaders to compromise the judiciary with heavy financial inducement and to orchestrate trumped-up allegations of impropriety against judicial officers,” he said.
We may need to ask similar question as a collective, if only as a way of bringing ourselves back to the path of sanity.
Speaking in the same vein, Labour Party’s lawyer, Levy Uzoukwu, and Chris Uche of the PDP, both SAN, pledged their support to the court.
“And therefore Mr Chairman and the Vice President, on our behalf, we congratulate you for raising the bar, for doing the nation proud and for doing very well and for serving this country in this capacity.
Though painful, the book launch from which so much was expected had to be postponed indefinitely.
The same thing happened when the Benue State Government met all requirements to secure N42 billion to clear the backlog of salaries, pensions and gratuity,” the statement said.
The group alleged that TotalEnergies exploit labour force and neglect host communities
The ruling party has yet to declare a position on the zoning of the offices.
However, the incoming government’s transition committee, on Tuesday, said the Ijohor-led team was frustrating a smooth transition from Mr Ortom’s administration.
EU’s Foreign Policy Chief, Josep Borell, in a tweet announced that the EU Ambassador in Sudan was assaulted in his own residency.
The APGA chief and others are being prosecuted by the police at the Abuja court.
In a video circulating on social media, the singer, son of late Afrobeat icon, Fela Kuti, was seen hitting an officer.
It was credibly gathered that the terrorists were combing forests in the area to recapture the students, he added.
Mrs Akande-Sadipe says if elected she will work tirelessly towards achieving the goals and objectives of the House.
INEC fixed April 15 for supplementary governorship elections in the two states and in five senatorial districts, 31 federal constituencies and 58 state assembly constituencies.
He acknowledged the exceptional service of Jean Haas, the Secretary of the Council, who will continue in his role under the new leadership.
At the time it was bought, Nigeria was trying to confiscate the London house that belonged to a Nigerian oil dealer who was facing corruption charges at home and in the United States, according to OCCRP Nigerian partner Premium Times.
The claimants, specifically sought an order of mandatory injunction directing or compelling the first respondent to remove or delete from its record or not to recognise or treat, deal or use the purported list of delegates pending the determination of the originating summons.
But Mr Ikyur, who described Mr Shehu’s statement as “infantile,” blamed the intractable massacres in Benue on Mr Buhari’s “endorsement” of the violent activities of herdsmen whom he said are of the Fulani ethnic extraction as the president.
His spokesperson also did not respond to requests for comment.
In a country where polarized political discourse and misinformation are on the rise, and where a journalist or media outlet is attacked every 13 hours, independent journalism, such as the kind that Aristegui practises and represents, is not only necessary but also a key element of democracy.
Mr Ikenga, a deputy superintendent of police, said the hoodlums were killed by police operatives during a joint operation with other security agencies, mainly vigilante operatives.
All of this, coupled with the offender’s good character, justified the custodial term of 22 months,” she argued.
helping us recover from the feeling of collective rape by those who imported the men of darkness that destroyed our country, of recovering our country and placing us on the path to our greatness, of exorcising the ghost of nepotism and religious bigotry.
The three-member tribunal in a split decision on 27 January ruled in favour of Mr Oyetola, by declaring him the winner of the election, while he sacked Mr Adeleke from office.
“I feel guilty, I feel like all this has happened because of me.”
She noted that they immediately took the daughter to Lifeline Children’s Hospital, Lekki, in Lagos, for a medical examination.
EFCC arraigns Ondo Assembly Speaker over alleged N2.4 million fraud
This premeditated attack by PDP thugs and operatives on our officials and members in Port Harcourt is yet another in what has now become an orgy of violence carried out with mind-boggling audacity, and with absolutely no serious investigation by the police or repercussions for the instigators and perpetrators of this serial violence.
If this persists, the principle of separation of powers will be in jeopardy.
Monitor and evaluate the implementation of Government Plans, Programs and Strategies.
According to the court filing, the scheme began with one or more of Mr Ponle’s co-schemers gaining unauthorised access to Victim Company B’s email account on or before 16 January 2019.
We did not find his evidence credible or reliable.
“Following the conclusion of supplementary elections nationwide and the declaration of winners, the Commission will present certificates of return to the Adamawa State Governor and Deputy Governor-elect at 3pm today,” parts of the statement reads.
https://twitter.com/lollypeezle/status/1657735089952813058?s=20
“That I have never been adjudged or declared bankrupt or insolvent nor have I at any time whatsoever made any such arrangement or assignment, with my creditors, which has not been rescinded or set aside;
Ostensibly, this latest attack was aimed at frustrating the effort of our Governorship Candidate to obtain vital documents to exercise his constitutional right to challenge the declared result of the Governorship election in the state.
He would be scornful of any world leader who claimed a perfect record and would be the last person to make such claims for himself.
Another issue the petitioner raised is vote-buying.
The animal’s meat is considered a delicacy in Asia.
It was only thanks to the efforts made by an uncle that she could escape,” the court said.
He said that in line with improving the welfare of civil servants, the government had approved a 2,000 housing units scheme for them to meet their housing needs.
I thank him for his selfless leadership,” he added.
In the North-east, Mr Danmadami said troops of Operation Hadin Kai conducted operational activities at identified Boko Haram and Islamic State of West Africa Province (ISWAP) terrorist camps and enclaves at high grounds, villages and forests within the zone.
Workers’ Day: NLC demands 65 years retirement age
However, a statement that left room for interpretation caused a stir.
By January 2012, he moved back to Nigeria with Susan.
The champion from each league gets to face off against the other team in a best-of-seven series.
Mr Soyinka, in a statement on Monday in response to various accounts of the visit that have emerged, said the visit was not to mend any fence.
Mr Egwuatu, the suspect, while speaking to reporters after the court session, denied committing the alleged offence, claiming that he only opted to help “babysit” the child, according to the statement.
Peace making is not a specialised subject.
Pneumonia is an acute respiratory infection that affects the lungs making breathing painful and limiting oxygen intake, while cardiac arrhythmia on the other hand is an irregular heartbeat.
But lawyers say the Court of Appeal’s decision sets the tone of the final decision of the Supreme Court, either in concurrence or disagreement.
He said the minister has been paying whistleblowers less than the recommended rate prescribed by the policy.
“It is critically important to deliver this vaccine to children at risk: WHO, Gavi, UNICEF, and other partners are working to increase supply as rapidly as possible to protect more vulnerable children and save more lives.”
Mr Kalu, a lawmaker from Abia State, South-east, was picked to balance what has now become a joint ticket.
Mr Victor said when the panel members arrived Awka, Anambra State capital, and asked about the whereabouts of Ms Asadu, Mr Agbazue said he had charged her to court.
The court in a separate judgement also sentenced one Ibrahim Isah, a teacher, to life imprisonment for the defilement of a minor.
Mr Gambo said the investments made in them by the school and their contributions to its growth in return would not allow them to permit any act of illegal take-over of the school’s assets.
“…though his supporters and many other election watchers including international observers believed very strongly that he won the election but was manipulated out,” he added.
He said the government filed its notice of appeal without filing the necessary accompanying documents.
It explained that the schedule of the exercise, as published in three national dailies, will be held in twelve designated centers across the country in four phases.
The state government says the land was acquired by the defunct Western Region and designated as an industrial area.
Violent extremism — often fueled by corruption — finds more fertile ground.
He advised IPI Nigeria to continue to engage with the Nigerian authorities in its advocacy programmes, and to avoid unnecessary confrontation as much as possible.
A batch of Evacuees: 130 Nigerian nationals; 128 females and 2 males that departed Port Sudan International Airport landed at Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport Abuja at 3:15 pm via Tarco Airline B737-300 Aircraft.
Mr Njoku in the allegedly forged judgement, claimed the Supreme Court had declared him as APGA’s National Chairman.
Philip Aivoji and Tai Benedict had been suspended by their wards on April 14 over alleged gross violation of the party’s constitution.
“Of course, I took the view that as Housing Minister, my success depended on working with credible data.
Kulloma was prosecuted on one count amended charge of cheating to the tune of N19, 950,000.00 (Nineteen Million Nine Hundred and Fifty Thousand Naira).
Bayelsa State had the least number of votes cast with 173,111.
So I went in search of the data,” he began.
NAN reports that a woman – an entrepreneur – residing in Ata-Idung Afaha Eket in the Eket Local Government Area, was abducted on 9 April.
Nigeria’s Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed, has said that the government did not suspend plans to remove fuel subsidies but has rather expanded the subsidy removal committee to include teams from the incoming administration and the state governors.
He added that the arrest was a ground breakthrough record for the agency in its efforts to address issues of sextortion and nip it in the bud in Nigeria.
“The role of animal feed in Nigeria’s Agriculture sector is critical as it provides essential nutrients and support for livestock and production, an important source of income and employment for many farmers and rural communities,” Mr Abubakar said.
They stated that the decision was taken at a National Executive Council (NEC) meeting of the party held in Asaba and attended by members of the National Working Committee.
Mr Uzodinma, a member of the ruling All Progressives Congress, accused members of opposition political parties of being behind the report “to destabilise him.”
Read the letter in full:
The investigation was triggered by a petition to the commission by an Abuja-based lawyer and activist, Leo Ekpenyong.
The Presidential Election Petition Court in Abuja on Wednesday dismissed another petition filed by the Action Peoples Party (APP) seeking to upturn Bola Tinubu’s victory as Nigeria’s president-elect.
But like many other witnesses, Wednesday’s two defence witnesses questioned his charges and exonerated him of such charges.
He gave the anti-graft agencies 72 hours to investigate, arrest and prosecute Atiku.
Right Honourable Gbajabiamila has a well-established record of siding with good governance and accountability institutions like the National Assembly.
“We respectfully urge Mr President to cause an investigation to be carried out on this allegation and report same to the Legal Practitioners Disciplinary Committee for disciplinary proceedings to be commenced against Mr Ari, and the adequate sanction imposed on him, to save the name of the legal profession in Nigeria,” the group said.
“Gentlemen of the press, the PDP, majority of Nigerians and indeed the International Community are now worried that in spite of the results of the election as obtained from the Polling Units, which show Governor Umaru Ahmadu Fintiri in clear lead, INEC has continued to delay the conclusion of official collation, announcement and declaration of the rightful winner of the election.
She is also seeking an order of prohibition and certiorari preventing INEC and its agents from taking any further steps towards the declaration of the winner of the elections pending the determination of her application for judicial review.
Victor Inedu – ALTERNATE CHAIRMAN
This year’s theme is “Afrocentric Architecture Defined: Developing New Landscapes for Nigeria Today, Tomorrow & Beyond” and “The Future of Africa & Nigeria’s Leadership Role.”
PREMIUM TIMES reported how, about a week ago, Mr Maikyau led a delegation of NBA officials and other senior lawyers to Mr Wali’s family in Port Harcourt.
“This will require targeted outreach and engagement with communities, as well as the development of programs that provide affordable access to clean energy for households and small businesses,” he said.
“In several states, political thugs, apparently with the support of law enforcement officials, disrupted and sent back voters intending to vote for opposition parties.
“To be able to achieve these enviable goals, we require good leaders who will pilot the affairs of the 10th Senate.
Given the disposition of the executive, Bill No.
“You don’t really need anybody, whether immigration officers or agents, which we usually call touts.
Thisday newspaper reported that the event was attended by the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Umana Umana, former Governor of Edo State and Senator-elect, Adams Oshiomhole, and other leaders from the South-south.
But the former governor later lost in the 25 February presidential election, after coming third in the exercise with a total of 6,101,533 votes.
Thus, ex-governors can easily make strong arguments against the convention.
Under his leadership, the Council organized two France-Nigeria Business Forums in Paris, a meeting in Lagos, and a session in Paris last year, which led to several fruitful partnerships between French and Nigerian businesses.
“Of course, with the wider interest over and above private as well as individual interests, that is the true definition of impartiality as is needed to efficiently perform his duties’’.
The statement said the Ogoshis and Ezekiel were indicted in a United States federal court on 1 December 2022 “on charges of exploitation of minors and production of child pornography resulting in death, conspiracy to distribute child pornography and conspiracy to commit stalking through the Internet.”
Governor Ortom’s decision not to challenge the result of the Benue North West Senatorial election in court again points to the fact that he is not a selfish and desperate politician.
The last one, we gave them we evacuated people, we gave them $100.
However, the youth do not belong to any single party, no matter the temptation.
In his inaugural speech, the president stated that his administration would focus on the economy, fight corruption, and provide security.
According to him, arms recovered include two pistols, three pump action rifles, three pump action barrels, seven locally made guns, 14 locally made grenade, two K2 magazines, one AK47 magazine, 10 rounds of 7.62mm special, among others.
The Labour Party, which has been in existence for several years, became a major national opposition party last year when presidential aspirant Peter Obi joined its fold.
“The North-West gave the APC the largest votes in the Feb. 25 presidential election, so why not consider somebody from the zone?
Whatever we do and whoever we support is out of our deep convictions.
Speaking on restructuring, he advised that while the government plans to remove subsidy it should put up cushions for the masses as they consider the downside of subsidy removal.
The plaintiff based his suit on unusual grounds that he is the constitutionally adjudged winner of the presidential 2019 poll and has not served his four-year term as statutorily required.
Others, he said, were Ayuib Arowoye, Rilwan Abdulazeez and Shiyanbola Murtala.
Mr Mojeed, a business and agric correspondent at PREMIUM TIMES, trained in Botany and Ecological Studies.
Last week, six miners in the Turu Lamba community were also killed by bandits, a situation that sparked protests by youth in the community to block the Jos-Abuja highway.
The apartment is along Abakaliki Road, within an estate at the Government Residential Area.
2 Laws of Ondo State.
The director general added that over the past three decades, the RMRDC has remained the national institutional framework for promoting local raw materials development and utilisation by industries.
Speaking after parading the suspect on Wednesday at NSCDC Command Headquarters, Lokoja, the state’s commandant, Ahmad Gandi, said the command received a complaint lodged by an NGO on 5 May.
He also requested the approval to borrow an additional N1 trillion to fund the N819.5 billion 2022 supplementary budget which the lawmakers approved last December.
It would appear that a record discharge of toxic sludge from our notorious smut factory is currently clogging the streets and sewers of the Republic of Liars.
At the FEC meeting where the blockchain policy was approved, about N17 billion was approved as a refund to Borno State.
Similarly, some posit that the socio-economic dynamics during the election season, such as the severe cash crunch and fuel scarcity, might have prevented many eligible voters from travelling to vote and tacitly disenfranchised them.
Nigeria’s ruling party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), has dissolved its presidential campaign council with immediate effect.
Mr al-Bashir was indicted for genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity allegedly committed between 2003 and 2008 in Sudan’s Darfur region.
• Ipalibo Harry Banigo Rivers West
The APC said its primary election in Kogi State will hold on 14 April while a special Congress to ratify the candidate will hold on 15 April.
“Jibrin is representing Kano North Senatorial District in Kano State, the biggest state in the North-West geopolitical zone, which has consistently voted for the APC and its candidates, from President Muhammadu Buhari to President-elect, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu.
I was convinced that doing either would make me appear guilty.
Speaking on his organisation’s involvement, CJID’s Director of Programmes, Akintunde Babatunde, said the centre has been leading storytelling and research endeavours to spotlight a lot of issues threatening food security in Nigeria and that after years of rigorous reporting, “now is the time to convene stakeholders in the sector to walk the talk.”
The governors and other council members who were having a physical meeting for a long time rounded up their accolades for the VP when they all rose up singing “for he is a jolly good fellow” in unison and a round of applause at the end of the meeting Thursday inside the Council Chambers in the Presidential Villa.
Ewuare II, notified the Netherlands Ambassador to Nigeria, Wouter Pomp, of the significance of the gazette and Presidential declaration, when the diplomat paid a courtesy visit to the palace.
President Buhari should not countenance this.
Police kill kidnap suspect in Ebonyi, rescue victim
Why did they fail to remove us?” he said.
But you have to keep trying.”
The Nigerian government has suspended the Executive Secretary of the National Senior Secondary Education Commission (NSSEC), Benjamin Abakpa, a professor of Mathematics Education, over allegations bordering on corruption.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the minister is in Washington to interact with international media and the policy institutes set up among others, to provide solutions to global challenges.
The 33-year-old member-elect promised to contribute to enactment of laws that would boost youth development.
At the Makkah Guest Palace where he is accommodated by the government of the host country, President Buhari received Governors Mai Mala Buni of Yobe, Babagana Zulum of Borno and the incoming Governor of Katsina State, Dikko Radda.
Ghana’s president to chair book launch on Buhari
About a month later, in October 2021, he led the three-member panel of the court that dismissed a suit by the suspended National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Uche Secondus, to allow the party to hold a hitch-free national convention.
The minister explained that following the approval of the policy, the cabinet directed regulatory agencies to liaise with the National Information Technology Development Agency to ensure that regulatory instruments were introduced in the national economy and security.
The secrets are revealed when one of them lies about a terminal illness.
When I saw a half salary for January, some of our colleagues in other hospitals said we’re lucky because others were not paid.
He, however, said the abductors were yet to make their demand.
It is not surprising to see that Biodun Stephen’s film “A Simple Lie” trails on that path as well.
The killings have pitted Mr Ortom against the Buharii administration.
The former Vice President boasted that records of his identity and educational qualifications have remained untainted.
The police commissioner has commiserated with the family of the victim over the loss.
The minister also assured that the Buhari administration will ensure that it handed over the company to a competent bidder before handing over to the next government.
They also pleaded with the government to hasten the evacuation of their colleagues still trapped in Sudan.
12:09pm: INEC lawyer, Abubakar Mahmoud, informs court of his client’s pending applications in response to APP’s petition
Following a protest staged by the students of the institution on Tuesday, the management of Ekiti State University (EKSU), Ado-Ekiti, has announced the suspension of academic activities.
Cost of sales spiked by 21.8 per cent or N60.4 billion in 2022, driving margin low and hurting gross profit, as the company now deploys tough measures to keep operations going,
Mr Kolade joined Sheffield Hallam University as a full professor of Entrepreneurship and Digital Transformation this month, a big inspiration to the Black academic community in the UK, where just one per cent of professors are Black.
I also know that housing provision must look seriously at the rental side while trying to increase ownership.
A five-member panel of the court led by Haruna Tsammani dismissed the case after the petitioner’s lawyer announced its withdrawal.
Organised criminal networks that previously traded mostly with African elephant ivory are turning to pangolins.
Delivering judgement on two separate suits filed by the plaintiffs, the judge, Inyang Ekwo, held that the fears of the applicants were well founded, and that suspending or expelling them would amount to the breach of their rights to freedom of association.
The EFCC had asked the state government to provide explanations about an alleged case of fraudulent misappropriation of funds in respect of data collection exercise for the administration of subsidies to smallholder farmers.
Buba of the Federal High Court.
The hosts then scored the third goal at the cusp of the first half with Ubong Froday’s finish to Collins’ cross.
The agency’s recall of the capsule was contained in a public alert with No.
At no time throughout the campaign did Mr Peter Obi ever say, think or even imply that the 2023 election is or was a religious war."
He thanked the president for providing the leadership through his approval of appointments to the leadership of the FHA Board and management.
But the good news is that no Nigerian life has been lost so far,” Mr Dada said.
The drama, which is titled: “Esu and the Vagabond Minstrels,” was performed at Terra Kulture, Victoria Island, Lagos.
The ruling All Progressives Congress, which has a majority in the Senate, has endorsed the former Akwa Ibom governor for the position and Kano senator Barau Jibrin as his deputy.
Mr Tinubu and the party have yet to officially announce this arrangement, which is already generating reactions, particularly from the North-central.
At an occasion to mark his final outing as President on a Sallah Day, before handing over, President Muhammadu Buhari on Friday thanked Nigerians for the honour to serve for two terms, 2015-2023, asking for pardon from those he might have hurt while discharging his duties.
“We are not the ones that advised them to go to tribunal, why should we be the ones to pressurise them against continuing with their case?
She listed other stakeholders as the Organised Private Sector, youth organisations, labour unions, traditional and religious institutions, major political parties, women’s organisations, and people with special needs, among others.
He stated that throughout the nation’s history, the great Nigerian workers had been remarkable for their patriotism, commitment to nation-building and resilience in the face of serious development challenges.
“The NBA stands with and assures his family of our full support in this trying period, even as we join in praying for his safe return home.”
Nearly all Nigerian banks have fake versions of their social media handles created by parodists.
The corps member reportedly exposed atrocities allegedly committed by three police officers in Anambra State.
Onuoha: The thing with being in politics as a woman is about the plan of work and time management, which is also a course that I would advocate that members should take.
The attackers also killed a couple identified as Mr and Mrs Chinaka Nwagu, who owned a nearby shop, where two of the officers ran to for safety.
Mr. President is aware of the fact that APC did not win the election and that it was stolen,” party spokesperson Obiora Ifoh wrote in a Friday statement.
Until her latest appointment, Mrs Okorie was the Acting Director of Information and Public Relations of the university.
So what now happens between 2019 and 2023 that he’s now saying that I am not fit to be a governor?
The Presidential Election Petition Court in Abuja on Monday dismissed one of the five petitions challenging the victory of Bola Tinubu in the 25 February poll.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the state command had on 9 July 2022 recaptured one of the escaped inmates, Hassan Hassan.
The investigation, which lasted for about nine months, returned without proof of non-remittance, although Ms Bala Usman was nonetheless removed from office and replaced with Mohammed Bello-Koko, who served as her executive director, finance and administration under her.
She described the rape as occurring on one occasion only, on a bed in the sitting room of the flat.
But on Tuesday, across many centres visited in both Lagos and Abuja, Nigeria’s Federal Capital Territory (FCT), there was relative peace and calm atmosphere as candidates applauded the process.
The growth was recorded as the squeeze resulting from the central bank’s push to wean Africa’s largest economy off dependence on physical cash softened.
“Your cooperation, support and prayers during this period have added value to the success of my journey.
Ms Catriona Laing says she is sad leaving Nigeria after a four-and-a-half years tour of duty.
The Governorship Election Petition Tribunal in Abeokuta, Ogun State, has struck out the petitions filed by the New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP) and the Action People’s Party (APP) against the reelection of Governor Dapo Abiodun.
Mr Dawulung explained that the crash was caused by speed and a tyre burst that made the vehicle to summersault.
The report said “Over seven months, from September 2022 to March 2023, the cost of preparing a pot of Jollof rice has risen from N9,917 to N10,882, marking an increase of 9.73 per cent.
“We found both of these witnesses to be honest, credible and reliable,” the judge said.
Woodberry, accused of defrauding a US company of about $188,000, similarly maintained his innocence for over two years.
Mr Oyetola backed the establishment of the university with a law made on 27 September and inaugurated the university governing council and principal officers in November 2022.
There are 360 seats in the lower chamber.
I want them to hire me as president of the 10th Senate on the inauguration day.
Mr Ajibola was also a member of the United Nations Compensation Commission on Iraq’s Invasion of Kuwait; Arbitrator and Commissioner of the Ethiopia/Eritrea Boundary Commission.
In a statement dated 7 May 2023 and signed by SERAP deputy director Kolawole Oluwadare, the organisation said, “It’s unacceptable to take the court, which is the guardian of justice in this country, for a ride.
He advised political actors participating in the Saturday supplementary elections to conduct themselves in a manner befitting of Nigeria’s electoral process.
Following Jesus from a distance exposed Peter’s cowardice and led him to deny Jesus three times.
Trade derived further strength from the gains recorded by GTCO and oil and gas firm Ardova.
“The data is being worked on but I want to tell you categorically that by the time we finish the research we are doing, perhaps Sudan would be one of the largest areas where we have the largest concentration of Nigerians in Diaspora.
He added that the efficient use of gas resources is a key component of achieving both energy security and reducing emissions.
The 26th President of the NBA was kidnapped and held for 14 days following a violent attack on his convoy along EastWest Road, in Obio Akpor Local Government Area of Rivers State on 17 April 2023.
Multi-million dollar coconut plantation destroyed in Akwa Ibom – Gov Emmanuel
Gwacham Chinwe PGA and Idris Salman (ADC) are also members of the committee
The all-share index grew by 83 basis points to 52,290.8, while market capitalisation climbed to N28.5 trillion
Police to prosecute 781 electoral offenders in Kano
“I would like to thank Your Excellencies, members of the National Economic Council for your commitment and patriotism and the way that you have worked so hard to ensure that our country is not just properly advised by the Federal Government, but the country at all times is kept …
Apart from attacks on security agencies and their facilities, several other persons – mainly government officials- have been abducted lately and killed.
He said it violated various provisions of the Companies and Allied Matters (CAMA), 2020, the Petroleum Industry Act (PIA), 2021, and the company’s Memorandum and Articles of Association.
In this case, we are hearing rumours and speculation that some persons have been made consensus candidates,” he said.
But Gabriel Chikwado-Eze, who appeared for Mr Ndamdi, opposed the request.
Messrs Wike and Makinde are members of the G5 governors, including Samuel Ortom of Benue, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu and Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia States, all members of the PDP.
The younger Idigbe, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria, noted that the judiciary was still grappling with issues of technicalities in arriving at its decision.
I will therefore continue to work with well-meaning citizens of Osun, associations and institutions to facilitate development to our dear State.
Other states with the least number of votes are Rivers with 483,934; Kwara with 463,740; Cross River with 451,933; Yobe with 435,794; Abia with 358,808; Enugu with 353,463; and Ebonyi with 342,554.
To put it in proper context, by March 2019, APC already had 211 seats in the House but currently has 162 seats.
According to the statement, the committee has the mandate to shortlist, screen and eventually recommend aspirants for the speakership and deputy speaker positions.
Mr Malami said the Buhari’s administration took steps to ensure payment of the N135 million to the Apo Six in compliance with the recommendations of the National Human Rights Commission/
He, however, said that it was sexual exploitation where the perpetrator used coercion and threats to compel the victim to produce sexual images or videos engaging in sexual acts.
Following the expiration of the ultimatum, he filed a suit against the former Vice President at the Federal High Court in Abuja.
Following a petition to the Kwara State Police command by the company against the authors of the damaging publication, the duo were investigated and arraigned in court.
He also briefed on the arrests of several suspects in connection with election fraud and the plan to take them to court.
The President of the association, Emeka Innocent, said the decision was reached at the NARD’s extraordinary National Executive Council (NEC) meeting held virtually on Monday.
“The suspect is said to have lured the two victims into his room, a close distance from the victims, and took advantage of them while on their way to a lesson class and had unlawful carnal knowledge of them.
“The border has just been opened, ( with stringent conditions ) after President Buhari’s intervention with the Egyptian President.
In terms of initiatives, flexible working arrangements, and coaching and mentoring programmes for women are the most popular across all four jurisdictions.
Some of the bills the president declined assent to have to do with strengthening the National Assembly.
The officers are Adejoh Siaka and Friday Obaka, both of them inspectors while the third is Ndiwa Kpuebari, a sergeant.
A five-member panel of the Supreme Court, led by Kudirat Kekere-Ekun, on 24 March, said it made a mistake in a judgement it delivered in 2021, where it erroneously wrote the name of Victor Oye as APGA national chairman instead of Mr Njoku’s.
For this reason, there is sure hope of victory for all people who strive to follow Christ and His Way.
Mr Fagbemi urged other litigants like Atiku and Mr Obi to tow the line of the AA and APP by withdrawing their complaints
Mr Omo-Agege said he was eternally grateful to the president for his undeniable patriotic and equitable leadership spirit which has again resulted in the establishment of this much needed institution.
On the issue of the tribunal’s jurisdiction to hear the petition, the Supreme Court faulted the tribunal for refusing to determine Mr Adeleke’s preliminary objection challenging its power to entertain the suit.
Mr Biden may once again go head to head with Donald Trump, the immediate past president who had earlier announced his intention to run.
Mr Njoku claimed that it was him who was unlawfully removed from his position as duly elected National Chairman of APGA at a national convention of the party in Owerri in 2019, that the Supreme Court intended to restore to office in the judgement.
A Nigerian writer, Chimamanda Adichie, has criticised the United States Government for congratulating Bola Tinubu of the All Progressives Congress (APC) after he was declared winner of the 25 February presidential election.
His performance as NBA president was said to have caught the attention of the then military President, Ibrahim Babangida, who appointed him Attorney-General and the Minister of Justice of Nigeria from 1985 to 1991.
EFCC says the N725 million worth property located at Plot J 37A 218 Close, 2nd Avenue, Banana Island, Ikoyi, Lagos, is “reasonably suspected to be proceeds of an unlawful activity.”
He said workers’ welfare and wellbeing had been prioritised under his administration in view of the fact that they were key stakeholders in the administration of the affairs of state.
“Just last month, we celebrated the International Water Day; water management is critical if we are to cope with increasing population, provide food and combat desertification.
“2FA gives businesses or people the ability to monitor and help safeguard their most vulnerable information and networks.
Following Mr Abure’s suspension, Mr Apapa, a deputy national chairman of the party, assumed the headship of the LP in an acting capacity.
“Yes, it’s true we have reached an agreement with him (Mr Gide) to release the children and he has released four.
According to Mrs Onochie, the Act establishing the NDDC, empowers the chairperson of the board to sign MOUs on behalf of the agency.
“I know that in the last couple of weeks, there was another wave of flu or viral-like symptoms and for those that were encouraged to go and take the COVID-19 test, quite a number of them still came out positive,” she said.
Governor Oyebanji addressed the students after assessing the facilities at the school, urging them to see themselves as specially created by God for a purpose, adding that they are as precious to God as other children and should not feel inferior to anyone.
The plaintiffs are asking the court for “a declaration that the NBC code used by the NBC to impose a fine of N5m on Channels TV and the threat of ‘higher sanctions’ is arbitrary, unconstitutional and unlawful, as it violates the rights to a fair hearing, freedom of expression, access to information and media freedom.”
Notably, she led the team that originated and financed the landmark Accra Pokuase Interchange, the first four-tier interchange in West Africa,” the statement said.
The comedian turned politician, expressed optimism that Nigeria would continue to back the resolution of the UN on Russia, adding that Ukraine would continue to support Africa in the area of food security.
“Given that we are all united as brothers and sisters, and in our trust in the mercies and infinite benevolence of God Almighty, I urge all Nigerians, particularly the youths not to despair in the face of many challenges and tribulations that we are facing as a country,” he said.
“What has just happened is most inhumane.
However, Abdussamad Dasuki of the PDP won the Tambuwal/Kebbe Federal Constituency seat, while Bashir Gorau of the PDP also won the Gada/Goronyo federal constituency seat.
“I offer to serve you as Deputy Speaker (if zoned to the South South), that I will be easily accessible, help our esteemed first-timers quickly find their footing, and carry everyone along during our tenure,” the intent reads in part.
The abductors are demanding N500 million ransom.
A post shared by BBC News Pidgin (@bbcnewspidgin)
Until his death, he was the leader of “Fathers of Faith”, a group of Christian leaders in Akwa Ibom State with influence over the state politics.
The security of Osun people must be guaranteed regardless of their religious and political affiliations.
The federal government has in the past enjoyed low interest rate loans and grants from the World Bank through the International Development Association(IDA) and International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD).
Details of the judgement are contained in an appeal filed by the Nigerian, Oladipupo Fagbewesa, against the civil evasion penalty issued on 21 June 2021.
“Ensuring safety must be at the core of efforts to re-imagine mobility, and thus road networks must be designed with the most-at-risk in mind, “he said.
The ICT component contract was awarded for about N10.9 billion.
Do you want the food?’ He then asked me, “Don’t you need money?
“Those that will be affected include all DTT operators; ITS; Pinnacle; many private television stations; the majority of state government-owned stations; some NTA community and state stations operating within the range of 600MHz frequency.”
Yet another man, a resident of Lagos, Andrew Enin, said he did not know he was interacting with a fake UBA agent when he divulged his bank details after a failed transaction.
According to Mr Fashola, a former governor of Lagos State, the maintenance works are critical to the structural integrity of the bridge.
But we have arrested many of them.
WHO found that in 84 countries where trend analysis is possible, the percentage of disrupted services declined on average from 56 per cent in July-September 2020 to 23 per cent from November 2022 to January 2023.
Both Atiku and Mr Obi insisted they won the election and have approached the election petition tribunal to challenge the process and victory of Mr Tinubu.
10th NASS: Gbajabiamila tasks senators-elect, members-elect on unimpeachable discourse
“Each of those seedlings, if you go and price them how much in dollars, tell me what the government would do to provide employment and uplift the economic well-being of the people.
“This letter to your good self is in continuation of the consultation I had embarked upon, by which, I am of the hope that you will avail me a time to physically meet with you, even as I now canvass for your support and advice as we head to the day of the election of the principal officers of the National Assembly.
In a state where you won only one local government you are giving speakership to that state,” he said.
The former senators, under the aegis of Non-Serving Senators, said their endorsement of the two senators for the positions is to ensure equity and fairness in the dispensation of political powers to all geopolitical zones of the country.
Queen Elizabeth II was crowned on 2nd June 1953 at Westminster Abbey in London.
In its 24 March judgement, the Supreme Court affirmed Mr Njoku as APGA national chairman.
He noted that Nigeria is about 90 per cent dependent on road transportation which underscores the importance of motor vehicles in the economy.
“If you or someone you know is a sextortion victim, you can help stop the harassment by reporting it to NAPTIP.
“Because leaders have a way of influencing followers.
Comedy in Nigeria is not easy.
The resident doctors on 29 April further issued a two-week ultimatum to the government to meet its demands or face industrial action.
Oh My God 🙆🏽‍♂️🙆🏽‍♂️🙆🏽‍♂️ Murphy Afolabi is dead 😭😭😭😭😭 pic.twitter.com/ZB1hLkb34E
Mrs Udeh, a superintendent of police, said the rescue operation was part of efforts by the command’s leadership to sustain joint operations with other security agencies, vigilantes and hunters from the various local communities.
They arrived in an aircraft belonging to Tarco Air which arrived at about 3 p.m. (Nigerian time).
The Fund is structured to enable a broad multilateral coalition to unlock new resources in support of public interest media globally while maintaining the independence of both the Fund and its public interest grantees.
According to the second count, the defendants allegedly conspired to “allow Mr Roger Brown take over business as Chief Executive Officer of Seplat Energy PLC without the consent of the Minister of Interior, contrary to Section 36 (1) (b) and punishable under Section 36 (2) and Section 105 of the Immigration Act 2015.”
The lawyer contended that having failed to comply with the rules, the suit should not be accorded any attention.
He added that Stephen Ocheni garnered 552 votes, Sanusi Ohiere, 424, and Smart Adeyemi 311 votes.
Both groups are locked in a power struggle that has led to the death of over 500 people.
There was also an explosion at the gas facility during research, which is reportedly common,” it added.
Mr Shettima spoke during a meeting with Tajueen Abbas, Ben Kalu and other members of the ‘Joint Task,’ a coalition of elected lawmakers who have pledged to support the choice of the ruling party, APC.
Mr Buhari said the communication infrastructure was designed to provide secure means of communication, real-time instant reporting as well as information exchange between the armed forces and other security agencies.
After the visit, Mr Oresanya called on the federal government for assistance
“To build and secure democracy in our communities, you need lawyers and journalists as its guardians and protectors.
The President-elect particularly commended Mr Adebanjo for his leading role in the fight against military dictatorship, his pro-democracy struggles in NADECO and remarkable leadership within the Afenifere fold.
A House of Representatives Speaker aspirant, Tajudeen Abbas, has described speculations that he is a stooge to the outgoing Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, as baseless and unfounded.
As much as I have the war chest to face whatever comes my way – and I tell you, the APC and the president-elect will ensure that the women’s demands are met – I am here before you, take it to the bank that I will be a presiding officer of the 10th House of Representatives.
He also expressed appreciation to President Muhammadu Buhari for his “unquantified” support towards the realisation of the airport.
Raji said that ECOBANK was not involved in the processing of payments, approval of payments or verification of the list of the beneficiaries of the scheme.
“There was a crisis and the governor exercised his authority as the chief security officer of the state and put up a committee to be in charge of garages for peace to reign.
The three-week gap between the period of Mr Masari’s notice of withdrawal and his actual pull-out from the contest, APM argued that by the time Mr Tinubu picked Mr Shettima as his running mate, the president-elect’s “candidature had lapsed” and he was no longer in a position constitutionally to nominate a running mate since he had ceased to be a presidential candidate of the APC.
May Almighty God grant you eternal rest, and letperpetual light shine upon you.
Whatever the case may be, we know that it’ll come to pass too but even our children and other dependents know the Sallah (Eid El Fitr) celebrations were dull because we don’t have money to spend,” he said.
Some residents and motorists, including commuters, have been attacked lately by gunmen for stepping out of their homes on Monday and other declared sit-at-home days.
So, let’s give him the window to appear before the committee,” Mr Gbillah said.
Mr Obi came third in the election but he, and Atiku Abubakar of the PDP, who came second, is challenging the victory of Bola Tinubu of the ruling APC.
Mr Izunaso demands the zoning of the Senate presidency to the South-east region.
PREMIUM TIMES reported that Mr Tinubu settled for Messrs Abbas and Kalu for speaker and deputy speaker, respectively.
He said that the plant would continue to consider more research and development in order to ease the current hardships experienced by farmers across the state.
Following disagreement on the issue between Mr Malami and the lawmakers, the committee resolved that the AGF should re-appear next week.
“What if tomorrow, you give the South-east or whatever the representation they are looking for and they become number one in this election, this is what we call patronage.
Ike Ekweremadu’s conferment with the coveted national honour of Commander of the Federal Republic, CFR, is further testimony to his selfless service to our our country, Nigeria.
To address these price fluctuations and ensure food security for Nigerian citizens, the report said the government and relevant stakeholders need to focus on improving agricultural productivity, addressing supply chain inefficiencies, and implementing measures to curb inflation.
I took it to Nigeria & repaired it in computer village for about 100,000 naira (~$200).
Several police officers and officials of other security agencies have been killed by gunmen in South-east and South-east regions of Nigeria.
It added that electoral officers in connivance with Mr Tinubu and APC agents, “falsified, altered and mutilated (election) results from the various polling units” in the eleven states mentioned above.
Mr Soyinka doubled down in a statement titled, ‘”Fascism on course.”
University Press slumped to N1.66, recording 8.3 per cent depreciation.
According to the statement, NiDCOM’s boss, Abike Dabiri-Erewa, called on those concerned with passages and movement of persons and services along contiguous borders of Sudan to create a humane condition to allow unfettered access.
NAF crew members and NiDCOM officials after arriving with Nigerian evacuees from Sudan [Photo credit: Chiamaka Okafor/Premium Times]First batch of Nigerian evacuees from Sudan arrive Abuja [Photo credit: Chiamaka Okafor/Premium Times]
The Presidential Election Petition Court in Abuja has assured litigants that it would do justice to all petitions before it.
In a statement issued Wednesday morning, it pleaded with the public to disregard the rumour that it seeks exhumation of the body before conducting a fresh autopsy.
“This victory has further emboldened and made me more resolute in my commitment at bringing more people’s oriented projects and programmes as well as completing the ones we started in improving the lives of the common man in Yobe South,” he added.
Hadi Sirika for this vote of confidence,” he added.
He added that the decision has opened the window for insiders to acquire more of the company’s shares.
This year’s fellows are Blessing Oladunjoye of BONews Service, Karina Igonikon of the British Broadcasting Corporation, Pidgin, Rivers, Zubaida Baba Ibrahim – HumAngle Media, Abuja, Ijeoma Okereke-Adagba – Centre for Journalism Innovation and Development (CJID), Abuja, Sarah Ayeku – TVCNews, Lagos and Fortunate Ozo of Nigerian Television Authority (NTA), Ebonyi.
They also prayed the court to make a declaration, that “being political appointees/public officers currently in the service of the Kogi Government, the 1st to 6th respondents, cannot validly vie for the APC’s nomination as its Governorship Candidate, for the Kogi Election Governorship scheduled for Nov. 11.”
“I celebrate with you today with confidence and hope that the light now shining in Osun will also radiate over this nation for the good of our people.”
Mr Ajibola, the founder of Crescent University, Abeokuta, died on Saturday midnight after a long illness associated with old age.
The Chief Whip of the Senate and former governor of Abia State, Orji Kalu (APC, Abia), has declared interest and even used the “it is my turn” slogan to drive home his point.
“IPOB is a terrorist organisation so declared by the Nigerian Government, yet some Western countries harbour them and have been dealing with the illegal body.
The official, however, said strengthening health systems based on strong Primary Health Care (PHC) is crucial to building back better and accelerating progress towards UHC and health security.
Counsel for the petitioners, Livy Uzoukwu, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), informed the court that INEC had yet to produce the documents his team requested.
Mr Uzoukwu further recalled five separate letters were written to INEC chairman, Yakubu Mahmood, requesting that access be granted to inspect and obtain relevant electoral documents to strengthen the petitioner’s suit at the court.
But nobody is going to dole out that kind of money.
“While we appreciate the Attorney General’s response, we would like to indicate that it came a lot later than we expected and it came without the response that we referred to.
Prosecution lawyers initially did not include the tape in Nigeria in the indictment.
She returned to the House in 2020 after the court sacked Obinna Onwubuariri.
“The eye of the storm, the most difficult part and that is the busiest part, is the Kaduna to Abuja side.
“Hauwa who was about eight months and two weeks pregnant during the time of her rescue delivered a bouncing baby boy on 28 April 2023 while undergoing thorough medical examination along with her baby Fatima at 7 Div Medical Hospital and Services,” he said.
The lawyer said this was in accordance with Section 174(1)(a) and (c) of the Nigerian Constitution (as amended).
Are we joking?”
Another voter, Sunday Chukwu, also expressed worry over the election processes, pointing out that there was a need to revamp the electoral body to have credible and reliable elections in the country.
Ms Williams appealed to motorists to cooperate with the corps by obeying traffic laws and regulations such as properly fixing and servicing their vehicles meant for long trips to prevent unnecessary breakdowns on the road.
“The facts and circumstances before this case are clear; both are not the same.”
They allegedly procured a 21-year-old Nigerian and flew him to the UK with the intention to harvest his kidney for their sick daughter.
The laptops were distributed in Ado-Ekiti under the Adolescent Girls Initiative for Learning and Empowerment Project (AGILE), a World Bank scheme.
The panel had on 27 April adjourned the case until Thursday for hearing of applications that have cropped up in the appeal.
The suspects’ mother, Victoria, narrated to this newspaper how her children, the two siblings, were arrested by the police under controversial circumstances.
Mr Doguwa said his ambition will be within the zoning arrangement prescribed by the party.
However, a state High Court that sat in Benin on the same day, restrained LP and all its members from any suspension of its national officers till the determination of a motion on notice.
“The grounds of appeal raise important issues concerning the scope of the obligations on the respondent in relation to requests for consular assistance in respect of British nationals detained abroad and the proper interpretation and application of the decision of the Court of Appeal in R (Abassi) v Secretary of State for the Foreign and Commonwealth Office [2003] UKHRR 76,” Mr Lewis, the judge, was quoted as saying.
Good journalism costs a lot of money.
Labour was a tsunami in the South-east and I came top with so much margin.
Jigawa fires Shari’ah Court judge over N50,000 bribe
Also, at a press conference on Tuesday, the traditional ruler of the community, Mike Nnukwu, described the demolition notice by the government as “heartbreaking.”
The breakthrough came in the 23rd minute when Bernardo Silva found the back of the net after a perfect through ball from De Bruyne.
Gov Umahi narrates how he retired permanent secretary prematurely
Subsequently, the senator said he was screened and cleared to participate in the primary election slated for 14 April, 2023.
He expressed optimism that the in-coming administration would rejuvenate international recognition and awareness that would attract other nations to invest in Nigeria and consequently turn the nation’s economy around.
The Chairman of the House Committee on Security, Lateef Akanle, expressed delight over the arrest of the suspected kidnapper, “Danger,” whom he alleged had been terrorising the people of his constituency which shares a boundary with the neighbouring Kogi State.
“We list individuals rather than multigenerational families who share fortunes, though we include wealth belonging to a billionaire’s spouse and children if that person is the founder of the fortune,” the magazine noted.
A popular female food blogger and YouTuber called Sisi Yemi, a Yoruba woman, took to her verified Twitter handle to say ‘My husband and I were not allowed to vote, they said we look like Igbo people.
She had ignored similar inquiries in our previous reporting.
Mr Abure’s faction interprets the takeover of the national secretariat as a plot by the ruling party to derail the petition filed by the LP and its presidential candidate, Peter Obi.
Seplat said in the Thursday statement that it “continues to follow the rule of law and uphold high standards of corporate governance.”
The federal government says it has successfully concessioned the Onitsha Port in Anambra State while discussions are ongoing for the concessioning of Baro and some other ports in the country.
• Umar Sadiq Sulaiman – Kwara North
P&ID Scandal: Insiders from shell company embroiled in $11 billion corruption case admit previous misconduct
Mr Danmadami, a major general, said the troops also recovered one PKT gun with 48 rounds of 7.62mm x 54 ammunition, three AK 47 rifles, three magazines with 63 rounds of 7.62mm special ammunition and three motorcycles.
In the charge, the defendants were alleged to have committed the offences between January and March 2015 in Lagos.
Consequently, the House summoned the Minister of Transportation, Mu’azu Sambo, and the Director General of NIMASA, Bashir Jimoh, to appear before its Committee on Local Content.
This year’s commemoration has as its theme, “Workers Right and Socio-Economic Justice”.
In his capacity as Chairman of the APC in the state, he neither campaigned nor voted for our governorship candidate during the period of the campaign.
He described comments by the literary giant as unfortunate and regrettable, saying it appears to be a selective witch-hunt.
Abdul Rafindadi Mohammed, SAN – ALTERNATE CHAIRMAN
The president had also met the Otaru of Auchi, Aliru Momoh, Emir of Lafia, Sidi Bage, Emir of Bauchi, Rilwan Sulaiman, Akadiri Momoh, Abdulfatah Emetumah, Fatima Emetumah and Isa Bayero.
“Let’s go back to resolve the issue of the party exco.
The ceremony was conducted by the President and Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces, President Muhammadu Buhari, in line with military tradition across the globe.
However, at the sitting of the tribunal on Monday, the counsel to the parties, Peter Ogah, withdrew the petitions based on the motion of discountenance earlier filed before the tribunal.
Asked if Mr Ohadoma’s action amounted to robbery, the retired officer said, “It depends.
The Senate is composed of men and women of integrity.
I do realise the implications of their action and I dare say, it is unpleasant and condemnable and can’t be tolerated in any sane or civilized society.
Mr Kolapo was represented by another staffer of the organisation, Ebunoluwa Olafusi.
Mr Doguwa, the current Majority Leader, later joined the group, Mr Wase said.
“The same clumsy, shady and hazy transactions of the past in NDDC, that had bedeviled and stultified identifiable progress in the past, was rested with the ‘Forensic Audit’ and the inauguration of a new board, with the sanitisation of the commission as its mantra.
The violence and attacks have forced 16 hospitals across the country to close, nine of them in Khartoum alone, Dujarric said, citing the World Health Organisation (WHO).
Usually is just a little amount.
A day after information minister Lai Mohammed gave a contradictory position to that of the electoral commission, INEC, on the upload of presidential election results from polling units, Mr Mohammed doubled down on his statement but blamed the media for its interpretation.
The governor, however, condemned the attack and the killing and vowed to cooperate with security agencies in the state to “smoke out the criminals and bring them to justice.”
UTME is an annual examination organised by JAMB for candidates seeking to be admitted to tertiary institutions in Nigeria.
They are fully aware that the PDP will win the central senatorial and the remaining two seats of representatives, so they are hellbent on trying to create chaos.
According to her, presently, new applicants and those who want their passports renewed spend between three to six months processing their international passport applications at the offices of the Nigerian Immigration Services and Nigeria embassies outside the country.
I recall, with fond memories, the beginnings of our political and social relationship at the outset of our collective quest for democratic rebirth for our fatherland.
He announced that Nigeria would also host the Commonwealth Youth and Students Summit for African Region, with the theme, ‘Making Change Happen’, in Abuja from May 9-11, this year.
Not satisfied with the woman’s claim, the officials made to seize some electronic equipment in the house but were resisted by the woman.
The Bayelsa Federal Commissioner at the National Population Commission, Gloria Izonfuo has been abducted by gunmen.
Senegal, Burkina Faso, Morocco and Mali will represent Africa at the 2023 FIFA U17 World Cup.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Atiku and his party, the PDP, are the 1st and 2nd petitioners, respectively, in the case marked: CA/PEPC/05/2023.
10th NASS Leadership: PDP, LP, other minority parties form alliance to produce Reps speaker
“All recovered items, arrested Boko Haram/lSWAP terrorists, terrorists logistics suppliers, were handed over to the relevant authority for further action.
IMF noted that debt levels remain high, limiting the ability of fiscal policymakers to respond to new challenges.
“Equally, the rescued terrorists escapees and members of their families were profiled and given medical attention, while the surrendered terrorists and members of their families are also being profiled for further action,” he said
According to the NCDC, Lassa fever presents initially like any other illness such as malaria.
But following the publication, Mr Ale confirmed that the hospital management improved in its response, and sanitation officials began proper cleaning of the isolation ward and hitherto weedy environment.
Mr Ologunagba saluted the courage, resilience and determination of the people of the state in resisting the attempts by INEC Resident Electoral Commissioner, Hudu Yunusa-Ari and others in their bid to destabilize the State.
What is important is that we delivered results.
Yushau Maihanchi, a member of the PDP, was elected to represent Jalingo, Yerro, and Zing Federal Constituency of Taraba State.
The CBN Act says the CBN may grant temporary advances to the federal government in respect of temporary deficit of budget revenue at such rate as the bank may determine.
The latest in a series of some partisan editorials by some of this country’s newspapers seeking to rewrite recent history was published by the Punch newspaper paper this weekend, painting a bleak, pessimistic and frequently inaccurate picture of the state of our nation and outgoing President Muhammadu Buhari’s leadership.
More than anyone else in the National Assembly today, Your Excellency is aware that overriding a presidential veto is a normal course of performing legislative business and does.
According to him, cargo was moved between Onne and Onitsha while the movement of cargo from Lagos to Onitsha was being concluded.
The former vice president took to his Twitter page to express his disappointment, describing Mr Blinken’s call to Mr Tinubu as giving legitimacy to “the widely acknowledged fraudulent election in Nigeria.”
“Although we had hoped and prayed that Prince Ajibola would still be around with us for a little more time to witness the dawn of a new era of renewed hope for our people in a better, stronger, more secure and more prosperous Nigeria, however, we thank Almighty Allah that he lived to an advanced age and left behind important legacies.
Pieces of broken glasses littered the bank premises, with charred remains of window frames serving as a grotesque reminder of the attacks.
“The petition is incompetent and unsustainable, same being completely starved of relevant supporting facts as required by the Electoral Act, 2022.”
Four months later, the EFCC detained Mr Akpabio over the alleged fraud.
“The instant petition is neither challenging and/or questioning the election of the 2nd and/or 3rd respondent (APC/Tinubu).
“That we have found in the two persons of Tajudeen Abbas and Benjamin Kalu, a leadership that will allow for fairness and equity as well as provide an equal platform for all political parties represented in Parliament to have a say in the running of the legislature and expression of alternate views on issues of public interest.
Pushing for the veto override will be your parting gift to Nigerians, including respected legal minds that have urged you on.
“Just the other day, some houses were demolished by the Lagos government on our camp.
The court will review a mix of varied, tricky legal and factual questions that have been raised in three petitions pending before the court.
“Government should not interfere in the operations of EFCC,” he said.
INEC presents certificates of return to NASS members-elect after supplementary elections
“This is in consonance with the Executive Order 11 signed by the president for the continued maintenance of public infrastructure.
Nigeria’s Aviation Ministry has expressed its displeasure at the ongoing warning strike by the aviation unions amidst efforts at meeting the demands of the workers.
“Workers’ rights coupled with socio-economic justice make a happy workplace.
It makes you so proud,” said teacher Andy Mitchell, 63, who left his house in the early hours to get into London.
The supplementary election was held on Saturday and collation was ongoing before an INEC official declared Mrs Binani the winner.
It recorded an abysmal 19 per cent voter turnout amid reports of violence and voter suppression.
However, the administration of Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State, in 2020, revoked the Certificate of Occupancy earlier issued to the developer.
As we seek a new Nigeria moving forward, one of the issues we must begin to shred into their basics is the rush out of Nigeria to study in “mushroom” universities, just for the sake of acquiring the golden-fleece.
Investors looking to bargain hunt and take strategic positioning now have access to a basket of promising stocks, some of them listed below.
Mr Akpabio and Osita Izunaso who is from Imo State are the candidates jostling for the ticket of the senate president from South-south and South-east geopolitical zones.
“Society should see journalists as “agents of change bearing in mind the various contributions and sacrifices they make on a daily basis to ensure the emancipation and liberation of the common man who had needlessly suffered deprivations, discrimination and other forms of human rights violations in the society,” Mr Ojukwu, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), said.
South Africa’s decision is coming one month after the ICC issued an arrest warrant for Russia’s President Vladmir Putin and his Commissioner for Children’s Rights and ahead of the BRICS summit which South Africa will host.
The vice president expressed sadness over the death of the legal luminary.
Some Afenifere youth on Tuesday during a protest in Akure called for the removal of Ayo Adebanjo as acting leader of the pan Yoruba socio-political organisation.
“This is critical because vaccinating those at high risk of malaria simultaneously will be important in stemming the spread of disease, as well as protecting the vaccinated,” it noted.
In the Nigeria I shall have the honour and privilege to lead from May 29, workers will have more than a minimum wage.
On 10 January 2019, he sent a message to Individual B indicating that the wire to the Victim Company B supplier account would be “$188K”.
“On the first day there were some candidates who were not able to sit for their exams because of some technical issues and we have rescheduled those candidates.
Jointly organised by China Dialogue Ocean and the School of Journalism and Digital Media at the University of The Gambia, the workshop will hold from 8-10 May.
The Minister of Information, Lai Mohammed, has said that President Muhammadu Buhari did not confer any advantage on his ruling All Progressives Congress(APC) during the 25 February presidential election.
The National Vice Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the South-west, Soji Adagunodo, is dead.
While noting that it was unlawful for people to take laws into their hands, she said the rightful thing to do was to have reported the suspect to the nearest police station in the area.
same are not availing to validate the petitioners’ claims and/or purported right to present the instant petition.”
Mr Adejobi, a chief superintendent of police, said one other officer, Ndiwa Kpuebari, a sergeant, was reprimanded for being present at the scene of the incident and not taking any action to discourage such “inappropriate and shameful act”.
APGA Crisis: Njoku writes INEC to recognise him as national chairman
He was the 10th president-general of the Ohanaeze Ndigbo.
We would find a way of either expanding or finding a way of accommodating them so that every candidate that wants to register for the DE is given the opportunity to do that,” he said.
The cinematic element is another plus that makes the movie a must-watch.
While the Labour Party (LP) has the seats of eight senatorial districts, the Social Democratic Party (SDP) and New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) have two seats each.
The fact that they don’t have the governor’s seat, some party supporters may decide not to vote or fight for the party.
Also, before the nominees were cleared by the Senate, the former Minister of Niger Delta, Godswill Akpabio, named an interim management committee for the NDDC.
Most of the companies that rely on importation of raw materials are having that challenge now except if they operating in a monopoly market where there is no substitute for their products.”
Mr Okoye said the IPOB members, on sighting the police operatives, engaged them in a shoot-out but that the hoodlums were overpowered by the superior firepower of the officers, forcing them to flee the scene with gunshot injuries.
“Government is a continuum, but convention dictates that sustainable development plans should be nurtured by successive governments, but new and unprofitable contracts should be suspended by departing governments,” the newspaper stated.
Opinion polls do not win elections,” he said.
Mr Wase, who is from Plateau State, stated that the ruling party must follow the Nigerian constitution in ensuring that the North-central is not excluded from the distribution of offices even though the constitution does not state how such offices should be allocated.
Spanning an impressive total floor area of 2,485 square meter on a suspended floor with a basement, the hospital, which serves as a specialized Intensive Care Centre, caters for the President, Vice President, their immediate families and VIPs; incorporates state-of-the-art medical technology.
“As a people of faith united by our father, Abraham, the recent history of our dear nation and faith communities are being threatened by the machinations of politicians.
According to her, the $800 million is the first tranche of palliatives to be disbursed through cash transfers to about 50 million Nigerians, who belong to the most vulnerable category of society.
Ms Iringe-Koko, a superintendent of police, added that police tactical teams had been deployed to ensure the rescue of the commissioner and her aides.
We are calling on the UK government to be merciful in this situation to ensure the lawmaker is not jailed,” he said.
He was crowned with the 360-year-old St. Edward’s Crown, and the clergy proclaimed “God Save the King”, and the congregation responded “God save King Charles”.
“On receiving the report, the minister contacted his colleague, the Minister of the Federal Capital Territory, Muhammad Bello, who blamed the development on some overzealous officials, acting without his authority.
“So, I don’t see anything controversial in that,’’ he said
Profit before tax contracted by half to N2.9 billion, while profit for the period plunged to N1.9 billion from N5 billion.
NBA COMMITTEE ON PARLIAMENTARY AFFAIRS
In the application, Mr Opatola is praying the court for an order granting him leave to apply for an order of mandamus compelling the NPC to furnish him with information concerning the forthcoming 2023 General Census.
• Eze Kenneth Emeka – Ebonyi Central
“A neighbour of mine was alone in the house with four small children, she called for help and no one came.
The US government last year described Woodberry’s ally, Hushpuppi as “a prolific international fraudster who conspired to launder tens of millions of dollars through a series of online scams.”
He gave the names of the suspects as Fidelis Nwusulor, 51, Amobi Iloegbunam, 44, Solomon Akpagu, 51, and Chidiebere innocent, 28 – all males.
Before her elevation to the Court of Appeal bench, she had put in a total of 17 years into her judicial career which began with her appointment to the High Court of Oyo State on 30 January 1997.
Mr Adeleke has since been sworn in.
“As the Chairman, House Committee on Legislative Compliance, I have observed that some appointments to boards and other agencies were not brought to this noble House.
He added that the contents of the fallen vehicle had been successfully trans-loaded into another one while men of the Ogun State Fire Service had proceeded to refill their water tank.
“We challenge the Governor being an outgoing governor (Mr Wike) to play less divisive politics and exercise restraint in planting seeds of discord amongst opposition political parties.
He said Nigeria has so many regulations and that in any standard regulation, there is a need for proper consensus.
“FRSC recruitment process is on and there is a fake LinkedIn account operating on Whatsapp number: 07069777732 under the name of Corps Marshal Dauda Biu with the intent to defraud innocent members of the public in the guise of offering them employment.
It refused to arrest him despite Mr al-Bashir facing an ICC arrest warrant for alleged war crimes.
Mr Igbakaba, a PDP, lawmaker, however recommended that the National Assembly leadership should consider lawmakers from the South-east because of the agitation that people from the region believe they are being sidelined in national politics.
“Operatives of the decoy squad embarked on a sting operation on May 11 and arrested one Emmanuel James, suspected to be the leader of the gang.
Every life is valuable and must be treated with honour and dignity.
“We use this opportunity to alert the Nigerian flying public that all our flights will be disrupted today (Wednesday) and in the coming days because cancellations will follow.
“An order granting leave to the applicant to apply for an order of mandamus compelling the defendant to furnish him with comprehensive and detailed information concerning any conflict of interest in the allotment of contracts or jobs given by or to contractors towards the coming 2023 General Census until judgment is delivered in this case within 7 days of the delivery of judgment.”
If they want to take that risk, the options are there..."
But Defence lawyers have often questioned the credibility of the witnesses.
The spokesperson of the Peoples Democratic Party Presidential Campaign Council (PDP PCC) and November 2023 governorship aspirant in Kogi State, Dino Melaye has said that Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike sponsored his governorship campaigns in 2015.
‘‘Instead of abandoned projects, we now have 748 completed housing units for Nigerians and their families to shelter.
The judge said: “The defendant tried to mislead the court by claiming to have been with his brother on the said day but he failed to corroborate his evidence by giving the date and day he visited him.
Mr Oyewole argued that the defendant had been on police administrative bail since 20 May 2022 and had made himself available to the police.
At no time throughout the campaign did Mr Peter Obi ever say, think or even imply that the 2023 election is or was a religious war.
On the restructuring of MOFI, the president explained that it is a clear indication of the government’s commitment to harnessing and creating value from its assets and investments, adding that the federal government is now positioned to optimize its assets, make strategic investments, diversify the economy, generate more revenue, revive public enterprises, and increase transparency in the public sector.
Of course, they declined.
Ms Farouq said the government of Nigeria is happy “that all of them are back safely, no lives lost, which is the most important thing, and all of the efforts put in place have not gone in vain.”
I lobby to get the courtship of the men to assure them that I am a friend, a partner in progress and that I am not a bully.
Anambra community shuns traditional ruler-designate, crowns another
It is very sad and wicked the attempts to manipulate Nigerians,” Mr Yunusa wrote.
Resurrection, not death, has the final word of History!
Mr Imam said the letter Mr Njoku wrote to INEC read “We will be most grateful if my recognition is instantly addressed and speedily honoured, bearing in mind that all the confusion from the Police and other allegations have been laid to rest.
He said it had an ambitious target to reduce road traffic deaths and injuries, which would be by 50 per cent by 2030.
He said that a very happy public service would automatically translate into a booming economy.
A human rights group, the Human Rights Writers Association (HURIWA) has asked Governor Hope Uzodinma of Imo State to step down from the state’s governorship race over the recent killing of five police officers and a couple in the state.
“This means we have been able to secure the release of only four out of the 11 students remaining in captivity.
He held that Mr Maina stole over N2 billion belonging to pensioners, “most of whom have died without reaping the fruits of their labour”.
That is why I am here.
Meanwhile, before the elections, the ruling APC was in control of 18 out of these 28 states while PDP had 10.
But I answered them that my driver was already attending to the matter’, he explained.
The crisis deepened on Tuesday when the breakaway faction asked the tribunals to withdraw the petitions of the party’s candidates in the recent elections.
The presentations and the panel discussion will be followed by a robust interactive session with the participants drawn from diverse policy backgrounds.
Others that spoke include Messrs Jaji and Soli.
The magistrate sentenced the convicts to two months’ imprisonment with an option of N40,000 on count one of the charge – offence of conspiracy.
“When the physical assault had come to an end, the offender told E to hold a metal stick above his head and face the garden.
It added that the public sector and the judiciary did not have any specific policies or initiatives in place to push women to the top of their organisations;
Therefore, the bill seeks to bring the retirement age of High Court judges to be at par with that of the justices of the two appellate courts.
The ECOWAS Court has the records of ruling against member states including Nigeria in human rights cases, the only subject matter the court’s jurisdiction covers.
It is not clear when he became the beneficial owner, but when Aranda Overseas Corporation was incorporated in November 1999 in the tax haven British Virgin Islands, the younger Tinubu was 14 and had just been admitted into Milton Abbey School in England for his secondary school education while his father had just spent nearly six months as the governor of Lagos State.
My home town, Daura, is about eight kilometres to Niger Republic.
The candidate said: “We left Ipaja as early as 5a.m and when the bus developed a fault, we opted for another one only for us to be delayed further by the traffic.
“Separation of power is a doctrine enshrined in the constitution.
Nigerian economists argue that paying this amount would cripple public finances in a country where about 95 million people live in poverty.
She noted that both organisations advocate and challenge all forms of gender-related violence.
He said the plan has the vision of a dynamic, industrialized and knowledge-based economy that generates inclusive and sustainable development for the country.
Priced at N18.50 per share, the stock had a PE ratio of 5.4x at the last trading session, while its EPS is N3.46.
The statement pointed out that other dignitaries who spoke at the event said that most of the funds that had accrued to the NDDC in previous years had not been properly applied, thereby contributing to the continued underdevelopment of the region.
“Pouring a corrosive substance on the victims was never contradicted by the defendant.
Unlike the graduates of universities, HND holders cannot rise to Grade Level (GL) 17 in the civil service.
She was brought up by her paternal grandparents in Nigeria until 2006 when her father arranged for her to travel to the UK to live with him.
RSF said in video clips published on Tuesday that it had seized the Al-Kadro camp in Bahri town, a major camp of the Sudanese Army.
The famous writer also said Nigeria’s electoral umpire, INEC, reneged on its guidelines and assurances to Nigerians to upload results of the election on its Result Viewing portal (IReV) from polling units “immediately” elections were concluded.
The eligible voting population in the 28 states was 71.5 million but only 22.3 million people cast their votes.
The European Parliament called on the Nigerian authorities to release its citizens being held over allegations of blasphemy.
“I am very happy to announce that no single Nigerian is currently at the Egyptian border, we have completed the airlift from the Egyptian side.
A joint memo by the ministries of foreign affairs and humanitarian affairs said the Nigerian Air Force (NAF), Air Peace and other airlines had received clearance to fly to Egypt.
“In 1989, I was about to get married and I was searching for a good house to rent.
Sadly, our current crisis should be only a paragraph in the book of our nation’s trials, trauma and search for healing.
So they have looked inside, back, up, down, there’s nothing else they could say about me.
“If he (Ohadoma) took his (Ahamefula) phone, it does not amount to robbery,” said Monday Ubani, an Abuja-based lawyer and chairman of the Section on Public Interest and Development Law conference of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA).
“The number of civilian deaths since the beginning of the clashes has climbed to 822 with 3,215 injuries,” the nongovernmental organisation said in a statement.
He also gave the 25 June 2012 ruling that thwarted the plan of then President Goodluck Jonathan’s administration to rename the University of Lagos to Moshood Abiola University, Lagos.
Mr Fashola said over N1.5 trillion would be spent on the projects by the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited (NNPC).
Thirteen of the buses conveyed the first batch of the evacuees to Egypt from where they were supposed to be airlifted to Nigeria and were expected to arrive yesterday.
Onuoha: I go back to my style of leadership.
It was okay for him to say ‘Okay Hadiza, I will speak to the Minister and ensure he communicates but he choose to tell me that I should go ahead and if there is anything, he will revert”, she said.
The committees and their memberships are as follows:
But in his reaction, Mr Anikweze, a professor, who already has a certificate of recognition from the former Governor Willie Obiano-led administration, described the installation of Mr Okafor as another traditional ruler as an “act of illegality.”
According to the official statement, the outcry was uncalled for.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that there was a low turnout of voters in some of the polling units visited in Ikwo Local Government Area of the state.
However, five ranking APC lawmakers, who had also declared their intention for the position, said Monday that would work together to challenge their party’s candidate.
It is the fruit of justice.
NEC has been proactive and pragmatic under your leadership.
“Whatever the court wants to do to accelerate the matters, we are ready to give the court our support,” Mr Olanipekun, a former president of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) and the Body of Benchers, said.
Wednesday’s withdrawal of the APP’s petition leaves Mr Tinubu and his party with three cases to battle.
Mr Akinbajo has facilitated training sessions on investigative journalism in several countries including Nigeria, Netherlands, Senegal, Ghana, South Africa and Liberia.
The octogenarian was the publisher of Daily Champion newspaper.
The evacuees arrived at the Pilgrims Terminal of the airport at exactly 10:45 a.m., on board a Max Airline from Egypt.
The suspect, 37, is facing a three-count charge of attempt to breach peace, indecent assault and assault by slapping.
“I then told him that I did not know how to make money rituals as I was not taught that as a traditionalist.
Mr Shuaib highlighted the critical importance of addressing the human resource gaps in PHCs, as the majority of maternal and child deaths in Nigeria occur at the community level due to the lack of skilled health workers.
The government argued that it was under “a legal duty to bring” the IPOB leader “before the trial court to answer to charges preferred against him.”
Mr Tinubu’s victory at the poll is being challenged at the Presidential Election Tribunal by Atiku and Mr Obi who also claimed to have won the 25 February poll.
When CPJ asked Ethiopian Federal Police spokesperson Jeylan Abdi about the circumstances of Gobeze’s detention and rendition, he declined to answer those questions and said via messaging app that Gobeze had been detained in connection to the death of an official in Amhara regional state, was suspected of terrorism, and was not being targeted for his journalism.
He said the removal of Mr El`Sudi was duly communicated to and acknowledged by the party’s National Working Committee (NWC)
[PHOTO CREDIT: Official webpage of Court of Appeal]Mr Tsammani, who hails from Tafawa Balewa Local Government Area of Bauchi State, was unveiled as the presiding justice of the five-member panel of the Presidential Election Petition Court last week.
13 year-old wins 2023 Rivers Spelling Bee competition
Eludoyin is also the founding director of Aranda Resources Limited, a Nigerian registered company whose shares are owned by Aranda Overseas Corporation.
The groups vowed to monitor the compliance of their members to the declared industrial action, just as they threatened to “escalate it nationwide if positive results” were not achieved within days.
One suspect had stolen a child on 24 March, and was arrested while trying to escape with the child, the police say.
Brazil are the defending champions, having won their fourth title in 2019.
In the 15-second clip, some gun-wielding police officers were seen beating up Mr Ohadoma.
“It is no magic wand, but it is nevertheless a committed effort to provide a space for aspiring and nascent entrepreneurs to acquire new skills, develop their ideas, create value for society and capture value for themselves.
Those released are Faiza Ahmed, Bilha Musa, Hafsat Murtala and Rahama Abdullahi.
According to the book: “The first of this was the capital dredging contract and the second, the service boat management contract.
This year, all the organisers of the summit intend to deep dive into alternative feed options and how they can be used to tackle food loss, animal feed shortage, and food insecurity.”
These percentages represent the portion of the loan that needs to be repaid in each payment, except if the lender specifies a different percentage per the terms and conditions of the loan agreement.
“That in the next few days we will be meeting in a larger caucus of the minority parties to discuss and formalise the adoption of the Speaker and Deputy Speaker designates of the 10th Assembly of the House of Representatives,” the communique reads.
South Africa under former president Jacob Zuma tried to leave but was blocked in 2017 by its courts because the move had not been approved by Parliament.
Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) 1986.
Mr Buhari was arrested with his friend Zubairu Ali for allegedly snatching a motorcycle in Nasarawa Local Government Area (LGA) of the state.
We will be very thorough in doing everything; we’ll bring about loyalty to the Constitution, we’ll bring about loyalty to Nigerians.
“The international students are also finding it very difficult to renew their passports to enable them travel back to reunite with their families,” she said.
The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) recorded 22 incidents of hate speeches concerning the 2023 general elections.
Mr Umahi said that he understood the significance of the 2023 Workers Day celebration all over the world.
"The challenge before us is working in unison with the party leadership and the National Assembly over the election of their principal officers.
The Alaafin stool rotates between two ruling houses in Oyo Kingdom – Agunloye and Alowolodu.
Without it, every pillar and the foundation of the Christian faith collapses.
Unlike the experiences of many candidates during the mock examination in March, there were fewer technical glitches and slight delays at various computer-based test centres visited by PREMIUM TIMES reporters on Tuesday as the 2023 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) kicked off nationwide.
The Minister of Finance, Budget, and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed, recently announced that Nigeria had secured a World Bank facility worth $800 million.
He anchored his petition on complaints in 744 polling units in 10 local government areas of Osun State.
The researcher produced this fact-check per the DUBAWA 2023 Kwame Kari Kari fellowship partnership with premium times to facilitate the ethos of truth in journalism and enhance media literacy in the country.
“We acknowledge the sensitivity of the social media post considering the sobriety of the season.
He added: “Another one is for the rehabilitation of the Rubochi township roads and the rehabilitation of Rubochi-Gwagwalada in FCT for about N5.7 billion.
Mr Kanu has remained in the custody of the State Security Service (SSS) since his return to Nigeria.
However, Mr Obi and Atiku are challenging the outcome of the election at the presidential election tribunal.
This, they said, would give Labour Party 11 487 and PDP 6,988 and make them the winner of the election.
“Around the world, people still face vast disparities in access to health services, between and within countries and communities,” Ghebreyesus said.
*Victim Company A $2,300,000.00
On his part, Mr Onigbinde decried the lack of accurate data on PWDs.
In a statement on Wednesday evening by his spokesperson, Christian Aburime, Mr Soludo said the fact that the officials made separate security arrangements and bypassed the existing security architecture in the state might have made them susceptible to the attack.
“In a situation where some other people in whatever guise try to determine how or where or when or who should form leadership without consulting us, that should be seen as a mere failure.
Also, the Nigerian government, through the Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, recently accused him and his running mate, Datti Baba-Ahmed, of treason, following their utterances after the presidential election.
So I’m glad to see the full business case has been approved by the SEC,” Mr Sirika said.
Resident doctors make up the bulk of doctors in Nigeria’s tertiary hospitals
18 other students were sponsored to study in Sudan by Muhammed Ndimi Foundation (MNF) and 30 others are self-sponsored.
The company added that it is committed in its unwavering mission of nurturing Nigeria while maintaining the respect of all religious laws, tenets and guidelines.
According to him, the prosecution had not close their case at the stage the application for withdrawal of the case was made.
A smart approach is to straddle these powers for maximum benefit – avoiding ideology and idealism, and prioritising pragmatism.
“I want to thank JAMB for considering us and making it easier for us,” Ms Owhor, a resident of Rivers State, said.
With less than four weeks to the swearing-in of a new administration, Nigeria’s Aviation Minister, Hadi Sirika on Wednesday again reiterated that indigenous airline, Nigeria Air, would take off on or before 29 May.
Today is a special day in most parts of the world, a day to salute and honour the working people whose hard work and sweat continue to oil the wheel of human progress and advancement.
She called for proper management to ensure people have a chance to live irrespective of their medical condition.
“And on that Inauguration Day remember to write Francis as your choice for Deputy Speaker,” it reads.
“…Operatives of the command’s tactical teams swiftly swung into action, tactically manoeuvred their way into the identified criminal hideout and raided it,” he said.
Mr Kalu’s wife, Ifeoma, died on 3 April at the age of 61.
His optimism for activity in the near term is measured, considering that sentiment remains relatively weak and given the signals that access to cash will be steady, not dramatic.
The Federal Executive Council (FEC) has approved Action Plan 2022-2026 for the promotion and protection of human rights in Nigeria.
Fresh Autopsy: Coroner grants Chrisland’s request to access samples obtained from late student
At the 18 March governorship poll before it was declared inconclusive, Mr Fintiri was leading with over 30,000 votes.
“Nnamdi Kanu is very crucial for any discussion (on security) and it is not possible to negotiate any peace while  Nnamdi Kanu is in prison,” he said, noting that the Court of Appeal, Abuja had struck out the terrorism charges filed against Mr Kanu.
Chijioke Julius Linus (Triple 44 Academy)
Condemning the zoning, which he described as skewed, Mr Akeredolu, in a press statement he personally signed on Wednesday, said the purported arrangement stands logic on its head as one geo-political zone, North-west, will be favoured with two presiding officers out of four while the North-central despite its loyalty to the party won’t have any
The arrests were intelligence-driven, the police say.
The Senate Presidency position should be zoned to the South-east or fairly zoned to the South.
“The commission insists that those found wanting in the course of investigation will face the full wrath of the law,” he said.
Ms Omoike-Mark said that Justice Daniel Osiagor, instead, declared that the suit no longer had life before the court following a Lagos Division of the Court of Appeal’s judgment quashing the case.
He also noted that both countries have collaborated in naval operations with the UK Royal Navy providing support to Nigeria with a combination of training and developing capability together in the Gulf of Guinea.
He said the aim is to reach more evidence-based interventions that would lead to long-term desired changes in health-seeking behaviours.
Security agencies have killed seven gunmen in Anambra State, south-east Nigeria, during separate operations on Wednesday.
Sudan Crisis: Fourth batch of 410 stranded Nigerians arrives Abuja
He said the meeting was called to allow serious conversation among members.
“For the governors to say someone is bringing out like a million dollars, I think they over…….nobody has that kind of money in the parliament, especially in the House of Representatives.
Officials said these pangolins and their scales were smuggled from the port of Matadi in the DRC.
We started this in 2015,” Mr Sirika said.
The 2023 Ibrahim Governance Weekend opened with the Leadership Ceremony, awarding in-person to former President of Niger, Mahamadou Issoufou, his 2020 Ibrahim Prize medal.
This included 161 suspects in Kano State, the police commissioner said.
He added that the Pangolin scales were intercepted on the Benin-Lagos Expressway and the Indian hemp on Ewu-Auchi Road and on the Asaba-Onitsha Expressway.
We import all the Jet fuel we are selling in this country and then we continue to battle with taxes and charges from different agencies when the Jet fuel arrives Nigeria,” he said.
The IGP, who was represented by David Igbodo, the Commissioner of Police in Charge of the legal department, said the police are very much committed to ensuring the effective dispensation of justice in Nigeria.
The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Mahmood Yakubu, declared Mr Tinubu, who was the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) winner of the presidential poll on 1 March.
He was later taken into protective custody within the precincts of the Court of Appeal in Abuja.
Similarly, the document said Mr Fagbewesa works at night and therefore has limited time in the day to seek legal advice; he found affordable legal advice on 27 August 2021; English is not his first language and he had trouble understanding the procedure.
SB Morgen, a geopolitical intelligence platform, disclosed the 9.73 per cent rise in the cost of preparing the delicacy in its latest report.
India’s population to surpass China in coming days – UN
The bloody fracas, involving suspected members of the Eiye and Aiye confraternities, began on Tuesday and by Saturday had brought commercial activities to a halt in parts of the town.
“They know that whilst there were intolerable incidents during the election perpetrated by all leading parties (for instance, Peter Obi got far fewer votes in Anambra State than was declared – I dare them to publish what is on IREV), they also have credible reports that those isolated incidents did not substantially affect the overall outcome of the elections.”
The lawyer for the fifth to the 37th defendants, Taiwo Kupolati, in his arguments, said Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the governor, has the power to maintain peace in the land.
Others include Tajudeen Abbas (APC, Kaduna), Miriam Onuoha (APC, Imo) and Aminu Jaji (APC, Zamfara).
Soji Adagunodo, 62, died in the United States of America after suffering from an undisclosed illness.
Mr Martins added that the calls by certain individuals and organisations for an interim government after the 25 February elections were illegal, null and void.
He said some of the parents and the negotiator spent days in the forest talking with Mr Gide before he eventually agreed but instead of releasing the 11 students, he released four.
The association had in January issued an ultimatum to the government to resolve issues affecting its members, including the immediate implementation, and payment of the new hazard allowance and arrears.
“Therefore, the Commission re-affirmed its determination to deal with any staff found wanting in the discharge of his/her official assignment.
He said the intervention specifically focuses on increasing, retaining, and improving the quality, competency, and distribution of a committed PHC workforce, including facility outreach and community-based health workers.
Mr Maihanchi, a member of the PDP, was elected to represent Jalingo, Yerro, and Zing Federal Constituency of Taraba State after he defeated the incumbent, Kasimu Maigatari.
IReV: Again, Lai Mohammed contradicts INEC but blames media for his statement
The email, according to prosecutors, contained instructions that the money be sent via wire transfer to a bank account which was set up by Woodberry.
However, not all were there to cheer Charles, hundreds of republicans booed and waved banners reading “Not My King”.
Members passed the bill for second reading when it was put to vote by Mr Gbajabiamila.
PT: What of your governor, Hope Uzodinma, what kind of support are you getting from him?
It has become customary of the AGF office on the watch of Mr Malami to terminate EFCC’s cases once it takes over such criminal proceedings.
It’s expected that the global audience for the next World Cup will be even bigger.
“There are various kinds of tasks that we have go beyond the requirement of just giving cash transfers.
PDP governors, Atiku congratulate Adeleke at 63
Recalling international efforts to end the death penalty, it admonished the Nigerian state to “immediately withdraw the use of capital punishment for blasphemy and take steps towards full abolition.”
Flour Mills Nigeria features on this week’s stock selection on the twin strength of trading close to its 52-week low and for currently trading below its intrinsic value.
The apex Igbo socio-cultural organisation, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, has expressed sadness over the death of Chinwoke Mbadinuju, a former governor of Anambra State.
Because he said, the public will be able to view the polling unit results as soon as the elections are finalised on Election Day.
She encouraged the ministry to observe strict compliance of standard to operating procedure.
“As such it qualifies as ‘any other authority or person’ empowered by Section 211(1) (b) of the constitution to institute or initiate criminal proceedings,” he said of the EFCC.
“The Nigerian Muslim Ummah wishes you many happy returns of the seasons.
The judge also dismissed the defendants’ preliminary objections to the suit, saying the matter is straightforward which the court has jurisdiction to hear and determine, with no serious dispute to warrant an exchange of pleadings.
He said there was a lot of legal gymnastics going on with the case and Mr Braggs is trying to make felonies out of misdemeanors to avoid a statute of limitations problem.
Others were Aliyu Sayyinna, NNPP; Hudu Sa’idu NRM; Aminu Tambuwal, PDP; Labbo Bala, SDP and Muhammad Bashir ZLP.
“We ask members of the public to remain calm and expect further information from the ministry as we know more.”
“ICPC has now invited 8 staff for interrogation on these financial issues.
The stability of the nation is more important than any other consideration.
One of the affected landlords, who does not want his name in print, condemned the exercise, saying they were not given enough time.
The slain politician’s body was found in a bush a few days after he went missing.
In a statement dated 14 April, the CPJ said the two Nigerian journalists – Gidado Shuaib and Alfred Olufemi – “should never have been charged, let alone convicted, for publishing an investigative report about a factory.”
~Alake former editor of Nigeria’s Sunday Concord newspaper is the Special Adviser Communications to President-elect Bola Tinubu
According to SDN, “partial increases to Nigeria’s gas capacity are expected over the next few years.
The court agreed with the Court of Appeal that Mr Oyetola and his party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), failed “to adduce relevant evidence to prove their case.”
The FRSC boss said the United Nations had developed a global plan for the Decade of Action for Road Safety 2021-2030.
“Investigating the allegations and naming and shaming and prosecuting those suspected to be responsible for the missing crude oil would serve the public interest and end the impunity of perpetrators,” the letter reads in part.
Mr Kalu, in the letters which he personally signed and addressed to each of the NWC members and Senators-elect, said he is offering himself for the position with sincerity of heart, humility and candour.
As this office has done time and again we today uphold our solemn responsibility to ensure that everyone stands equal before the law, no amount of money and no amount of power changes that enduring American principle,” Mr Bragg said.
The court convicted and sentenced Muhammad Kulloma to one-year imprisonment for the fraud, but with an option of N100,000 fine, according to a statement by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC).
“On behalf of Sudan medical students, it’s a pleasure for me to inform you that we have come back home with our lives safely after escaping from the current crisis in Sudan, which is a great misfortune to our studies.
He is a former Nigerian investigative journalist of the year and currently heads the newsroom of Premium Times, Nigeria’s foremost investigative newspaper.
By November 2021, both chambers of the National Assembly had passed the bill sponsored by Ayo Akinyelure, a senator.
What are they talking about?
“I hereby make an order dismissing this suit,” Justice Ekwo declared.
The first batch of 1,600 people was scheduled to arrive in Abuja on Friday but will no longer arrive due to logistics and diplomatic issues.
Thank you very much.
“Consequently, the FCT minister assured the minister of labour and employment that the place is available for NLC to use on May 1, which is the worker’s day.
She said it was embarrassing to Nigerians that applicants would need to wait six to eight months for passport to be issued .
FEC approves N6.3bn for maintenance of Third Mainland Bridge
“Though, no casualty was reported, the collapse brings to questioning the continuous recalcitrance of building contractors to adhere to extant regulatory prescriptions concerning public buildings in the country,” MrEdu said.
He said the Lekki Deep Sea Port was inaugurated by President Muhammadu Buhari recently.
Speaking to Daily Trust newspaper, the residents said the arrests followed the arrest of two other suspects in Kagarko town who they claimed must have given the information which led to the arrest of the chief and the other residents.
Asad and another man were killed by police earlier this week in what was described as a shootout.
Using publicly- available information, PREMIUM TIMES presents profiles of the five appeal court jurists who will give the much-awaited vital decision in September.
He noted that the actions of the two officials contravene the constitution of the party.
Labour Party leaders clash at Presidential Election Petition Court
“The self-restrain, self-denial, sacrifice and deep spiritual consciousness that accompanied the fasting period should not end but be maintained and improved upon.
“If the invalid votes ascribed to the 1st respondent (Mr Tinubu) as a result of corrupt practices, vote-buying, overvoting…and manipulation of election results, were taken away and deducted from the 8,794,726 votes, the 1st respondent would not have scored the majority of lawful votes at the election,” the petitioner argued in its submissions.
Acting Comptroller of the NCS in the zone, Kayode Kolade, a deputy comptroller of customs, made the declaration on Wednesday in Owerri when he addressed reporters.
ANALYSIS: Sokoto political heavyweights resume battle at supplementary polls
Ozekhome's appointment as visiting professor is contained in a letter signed by the Vice Chancellor of the Abia State University, O.M.
Mr Shehu said , “Finance Ministry also had approval for the construction of Zone B Headquarters of the Nigeria Customs in Mando and Afaka in Kaduna.”
How I investigated fake claim on Nigeria’s housing deficit – Fashola
“Salman later died in Lake Chad.
“The facts in support of the petition… disclose no incidence of noncompliance with the Electoral Act, but only at best relate to noncompliance with ‘assurances’ which is unknown to law.”
The South-south region will get a boost if the religious factor is a major determinant.
We must ensure that MOFI’s investments are aligned with Nigeria’s economic objectives.
The event, which would be transmitted live, would be broadcast on BBC One and BBC iPlayer, as well as BBC Radio 2 and BBC Sounds.
She noted that the COVID-19 pandemic not only showed this obvious void in health systems in Nigeria and around the world but also worsened it.
Members of the coalition are drawn from the 6th, 7th, and 8th Assemblies.
Speaking on behalf of the family, Olaitan Ale said the patient had arrived Lagos from Akure, Ondo State where she was referred to a private hospital in Surulere area of the city before she was confirmed to be infected with Lassa fever.
These are important but first, keep us alive because only the living can enjoy infrastructure,” the Catholic cleric said.
In fact, Labour Party won the election but it was brazenly stolen by APC.
The profit margin for the fast-moving consumer goods sector is characteristically thin, sometimes single digit because competition is pretty fierce and pricing could be sensitive.
In response, a spokesperson of Tinubu’s campaign, Festus Kayamo, wrote a petition to the SSS, calling for the arrest and prosecution of the LP presidential candidate, Peter Obi and Mr Datti.
He assured workers in the state that they will be fairly treated to ensure that their take-home pay can take them home.
“In such a situation where the custodian has demonstrated that it is capable of giving the Defendant in its custody access to appropriate and adequate medical facility, it is for the court to exercise its supervisory power over the medical treatment of the defendant while in custody and in the course of trial,” he said.
“Ultimately, the Nigerian economy, domestic investors in the sector and the employees of these firms would be the victims of this policy.
The current state of hate does not define us and we need to slow it down.
PREMIUM TIMES reported that the Red Cross started considering "hard and painful" steps of cutting activities, threatening delivery assistance to people in emergencies across the world, including Nigeria.
As of 28 April, NCDC data shows that 266,675 cases of COVID-19 and 3,155 deaths have been recorded in 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory.
“But there could be more.
Mr Arase also said it was unfortunate that the incident occurred when the Police Force management was dealing with officers who harassed, intimidated or assaulted civilians.
The electoral commission, INEC, has declared as “null, void and of no effect”, the declaration of Aisha Dahiru as the winner of the governorship election in Adamawa.
He, however, observed that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) needed to up its game.
The resolution was a sequel to a motion of urgent public importance moved by Toby Okechukwu (PDP, Enugu) on Tuesday during plenary.
On March 17th, President Muhamhadu Buhari surprisingly declined assent to a record 19 Constitution Alteration Bills.
He said the action of the terrorists spurred residents of Gigane and other communities to launch an attack on Fulanis in the area.
Mr Obahiagbon, who announced the result of the governorship primary on Saturday morning in Lokoja, said Momodu got 1, 506 votes, Yahaya-Ashemogu, 1, 159, and Abubakar-Audu, 763 votes.
Mr Betara also prayed for the peace and unity of Nigeria, calling on all Nigerians to join hands in Nation building.
“Consequently, all holders of Cambridge Certificates, who desire to register for the 2023 Direct Entry, can now proceed to any of the Board’s offices nearest to them to register for the exercise” he said, adding: “This consideration does not in any way include candidates awaiting Cambridge Certificates as “Awaiting Results” would not be accepted.”
There will be a rerun for the Zamfara Central Senatorial district and two House of Representatives seats.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Inspector-General of Police charged Mr Nnamdi as the only defendant in the case marked: FHC/ABJ/CR/130/2023.
He said: “The policy came into being in line with the directive of the Federal Government.
However, the arrival of the first batch of evacuees has been delayed due to logistics and diplomatic issues at the Egyptian border, the head of NiDCOM Abike Dabiri-Erewa, said Thursday.
Others went to Vahum and Kolahum, while I was in Foya as a radio commander to Eagle.”
WFP to provide emergency food to 2.1 million Nigerians affected by conflict
Abia State University appoints Ozekhome visiting professor
Its PE ratio currently stands at 3.7x, while its EPS is N2.4.
Members of the panel will be known for the first time at the proceedings.
We have friendly nations that are ready to assist, you know, so that we’re having to record that the Saudi authorities have been able to pick up some Nigerians, they’re transporting them by ship, I guess to Saudi Arabia, to Jeddah in particular.
At the Court of Appeal, Mr Adah delivered the lead judgement of a three-member panel that affirmed the conviction of a former Plateau State governor, Joshua Dariye, on 16 November 2018.
Mr Erhumwunse said there were challenges especially as rural communities lacked the material resources as well as the access to social safety nets that could build resilience and better prepare them for such shocks.
Spain, meanwhile, sent four aircraft to the East African country of Djibouti to facilitate evacuations of its nationals and other foreign citizens from Sudan, according to media reports.
“Whether if the above is in the affirmative, it will not lead to an exacerbated undercount and inefficiency of the census purpose.”
He featured Olamide and Tiyewanna in his single ‘Boshenjo’.
Bernardo Silva also etched his name into the history books, becoming the third player to score two or more goals in a Champions League semi-final match against Real Madrid, following Lionel Messi in 2011 and Robert Lewandowski in 2013.
(NAN) (www.nannews.ng)
“We understand that the business of legislature is highly professional because it deals with law-making and financial appropriation, its leadership must be able, ready, and willing to support Mr President in the governance of the country.
The Federal High Court Abuja, on Wednesday, gave an order of perpetual injunction restraining the National Broadcasting Commission (NBC) from imposing fines, henceforth, on broadcast stations in the country.
You are a phenomenal boss, you are compassionate and kind-hearted.
“This is at the Imo State Workers’ Day (Celebration).
“From a series of assessments carried out on all the three geo-political zones – South South, South West and South East, we can attest to the character and personality of Honourable Reverend Francis Waive as the man fit for the job,” the group said.
Mr Apapa, after emerging from the milieu, told journalists that the party’s presidential candidate was responsible for the leadership crisis rocking the party.
Mr Dikko noted that the group considers North-central as the middle point that connects the South and the North, adding that zoning the position to the region is vital for “national cohesion, unity and development”.
The magistrate rejected his testimony and chose to believe the police which claimed it investigated and found out that Indian hemp smoking never took place at the company.
The prosecuting officer, Olaide Rawlings, told the court that the defendant committed the offences on 12 April at around 1 p.m. at Olomore area of Abeokuta
“According to statistics on TB burden, Nigeria ranks number six in the world and number one in Africa, with every local government having TB cases.
To show them that there is nothing wrong with my aspiration, I have also given other aspirants support.
Around a quarter of the world’s population watched the Winter Olympics in 2018.
Every election brings more frustration and anger and the victims all turn on themselves.
Nigeria in 2015 enacted the Trafficking in Persons (Prohibition) Enforcement and Administration Act, which outlawed all forms of trafficking, including child trafficking.
Workers in Zamfara State have not received salaries for three months.
“The Foundation will collaborate with the Federal Government and Air Peace in ensuring seamless transportation of the stranded Nigerians and more importantly provide logistics and succour to the evacuees, to make them settle more comfortably when they return to Nigeria,” she said.
He added that the chairpersons were of the view that Mr Lamidi and others involved in the action did not appear to be appropriate members of LP as no member would destroy his own home.
That is why section 1 (3) of Nigeria’s constitution says ‘the constitution is supreme and every other law that is inconsistent with the provisions of the constitution is null and void to the extent of its own inconsistency.’
Former NPA boss launches book on her odyssey in office
“All distinguished senators are by this notice requested to resume sitting in plenary on Tuesday, May 2 by 10:00 a.m prompt.”
However, it was Manchester City that struck again in the 76th minute when Éder Militão, unfortunately, put the ball into his own net, extending City’s lead to 3-0.
Yet time and time again she has responded to this harassment by doubling down on her commitment to critical journalism, refusing to be silenced.
But the hope was later rekindled after a former Governor of Anambra State, Peter Obi, dumped the PDP and defected to the Labour Party (LP) where he later emerged the party’s presidential candidate in the 2023 election.
Justice Misitura O. Bolaji-Yusuf, one of the judges sitting at Nigeria’s Presidential Election Petition.
“We are grateful for your country’s support of the Resolution of the General Assembly of the United Nations Organization “Principles of the UN Charter underlying a comprehensive, just and sustainable peace in Ukraine.
“This application is consequently refused and Is hereby struck out.
The police commissioner charged residents to always inform the police of the whereabouts of criminals, especially those found with bullet wounds,’’ Mr Nguroje said.
On a few occasions when that happened, it involved massive infractions that were too weighty to overlook.
He said they found it “pathetic” that there are still bad eggs in the police.
You don’t zone it to baboons.
Last month, Mr Sirika, hinted that the controversial national carrier will commence operation before the swearing-in of a new administration on 29 May.
The former vice president was a main challenger to Bola Tinubu, the presidential candidate of Mr Keyamo’s party, during the keenly contested poll.
Particularly, in Abuja, we have 12, 000 hectares of land or if my maths is correct, 24, 000 acres of land, all available as free zones in this federal capital territory,” the minister said at the time.
Having been appointed, Mr Ararume said, inauguration was “merely a ceremonial event” with no legal effect on his status and that of the other directors.
”This is for the National Population Commission (NPC).
“Some of these remaining candidates in the batched sessions have also been rescheduled and have taken the examination but some are yet to do so,” he added.
At the Lagooz Schools, Orile Agege and Perfect Angels CBK Centre, Oko Oba, Abule Egba, in Lagos there were candidates who didn’t show up for the exams while some missed it because they arrived at the centres late.
A place to go for many aspiring undergraduate and postgraduate students in the northern parts of Nigeria, the similarity of culture, shared faith practices, norms and the Arabic it offers as language of learning seem to be major pull for such students.
Speaking on how the electric buses will be charged, Mr Sanwo-Olu said the government will partner with Oando Clean Energy Limited to “strategically place Universal Chargers at public places like malls and gas stations.
I can relate to him.
Even by that change of plan, some of the witnesses have not shown up.
All election cases must be considered on their merit and adjudicated impartially,” Mr Amode said.
INEC’s Head of Voter Education and Publicity in Enugu State, Rex Achumie, issued the list detailing the names, constituencies, parties and number of votes scored by the members-elect at the March 18 election.
“We believe that the party’s role in the National Assembly Leadership is to ensure the emergence of a competent senator who has distinguished himself over the years, devoid of religious and tribal sentiment.
He said the fighting power of the nation’s military was at a low ebb as of May 2015.
For Nigeria to achieve herd immunity against the COVID-19 virus, the citizens must be willing to accept and take shots of the vaccines authorised for use by international health agencies.
However, fundamental human rights are supposed to be life rights; the basis upon which every law in Nigeria is supposed to be predicated.
The party then led by Iyorchia Ayu, whose reign as the party’s national chair was recently truncated by a court ruling, lately suspended or outrightly sent some top members out of the party over alleged anti-party activities.
As stated, I watched the programme keenly – saw the valiant efforts of the interviewer to ensure fair hearing.
The National Broadcasting Commission (NBC) on Friday hinted about its plan to appeal against the court judgement nullifying its powers to fine broadcast stations for breaching its broadcasting codes.
In the affidavit in support of the motion deposed to by Oladipupo Raji, Regional Operations Head of the bank in FCT, he averred that since the inception of the programme to January 2023, there had been no allegation against ECOBANK for fraud in relation to monies paid to its customers by the Niger Delta Amnesty Programme.
I know and can relate to the Labour Party on whose platform he contested elections,” the statement reads.
They urged the court to stop their trial because they had not been subjected to the internal disciplinary action of the Nigeria Police Council (NPC) and the Police Service Commission (PSC), as provided by the constitution.
Mr Ogbonna said the situation room records showed that there were two bomb attacks in Kaduna and Benue in the March elections.
”New regulations have been put in place as empowered by the law.
If they are known to misuse drugs, the tendency is that those that are behind them will also be involved.
They have lost the case; the charges have been quashed and the matter has been thrown out,” she said.
Presenting their grievances during the visit on Thursday in Abuja, Mr Yari said the fourth senator, Osita Izunaso, couldn’t join the group on the visit due to unforeseen circumstances.
“On sighting the operatives, the notorious criminal syndicate engaged them in a fierce gun duel but were overpowered by the super firepower of the combat-ready tactical squad which forced them to disarray and resulted in the arrest of four other suspects,” Mr Okoye said.
On Thursday, April 27, the state-run News Agency of Nigeria reported that Attorney General and Minister of Justice Abubakar Malami described CPJ’s research in a meeting the previous day as finding “Nigeria as the only African country that has been in full compliance in terms of the protection of the rights of the journalists.”
Mrs Dahiru was hoping to upstage the incumbent governor, Ahmadu Fintiri of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), who scored more votes during the main election on 18 March.
The commission ordered the suspension of the collation of results and summoned both the REC and the Returning Officer to the INEC headquarters in Abuja.
In the South-east, Mr Danmadami said the troops of Operation UDO KA had sustained the fight against criminality with the aim of restoring peace and stability in the zone.
As it currently stands, Bachelor’s holders offered in the universities are ranked better than the HND awarded in the polytechnics.
Cumulatively from week 1 to week 12, 2023, 144 deaths have been reported with a case fatality rate (CFR) of 17.5 per cent which is lower than the CFR for the same period in 2022 (18.6 per cent)
Besides, Mr Maikyau called on the incoming administration to focus on policies that will promote the growth of SMEs in the country.
Mr Oyebanji said he was happy that the donations yielded a good result as the proceeds from the birthday were used to renovate the school’s hostel.
NiMet predicts weather across Nigeria from Monday to Wednesday
A video of Mr Ari announcing Binani the winner has since gone viral.
The university noted that the appointments and re-appointments are part of the effort of the vice-chancellor to realign the university's workforce for inclusiveness and optimal productivity.
Before I take myself off for – well, next port of call – the final word goes to a favourite maverick, propagated even as he matched his words by action.
I am not from the South-east and I don’t want to sound this ethnic record but the South-east people feel they are not being looked upon as part of the country.
The court, therefore, struck out the terrorism charges filed against Mr Kanu by the Nigerian government and ordered his release from the custody of Nigeria’s secret police, State Security Service, in Abuja.
At least, 20 people have been killed after fighting broke out on Sunday between Wurkunawa and Karimjo ethnic groups in the Karim Lamido Local Government of Taraba State, according to a BBC Hausa report.
Also included on the list are Folic acid tablets; Vitamin B Complex tablets (except modified release formulations); Multivitamin tablets, capsules and syrups (except special formulations); Aspirin tablets (except modified release formulations and soluble aspirin).
Electoral body, INEC on Wednesday in Abuja presented Certificates of Return to National Assembly members-elect of the 15 April supplementary elections.
Mr Ngige said the resident doctors are suffering from “entitlement syndrome”, insisting that the federal government has gone to great lengths “to give them everything they want.”
Why demand for primary health care services is low in Nigeria -Official
Couple escape from kidnappers in Osun
He was forced to forfeit $460,000 to the U.S. government in 1993 as proceeds of narcotics trafficking, according to the ruling of a U.S. District Court in Illinois.
The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Kogi Command, says a road accident has claimed the lives of two persons while 12 others were injured on Sunday in the state.
An Abuja-based legal practitioner, Yunusa Ibrahim, described the 50 years of FHC in justice delivery as a milestone in the administration of justice.
The Federal High Court, Abuja, on Tuesday, restrained the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) from suspending or expelling members perceived to be loyal to Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike.
“The reforms he is implementing at FIRS attest to his dexterity, visionary leadership and patriotism.
An official also said that no Nigerian has so far been killed since the fighting began in Sudan.
He noted that the House must take “Cognizant of the predicaments of Ekweremadu’s ailing daughter, who needs the financial support and parental love of her parents to scale through her dire health challenge.”
“At times, there is no how we want to have an adequate and proper renovation of police barracks without having interventions.
Council also received presentations from the Ad-Hoc Committee of the NEC on Flood Relief and from the NEC’s Human Capital Development unit.
He also stated that he had told his solicitor at the beginning that the bags were not locked.
Contrary to the court’s findings, Mr Gambari argued, a former employee of Hillcrest Agro-Allied Industries Limited, “testified before the court that he was not only a witness to how smoking of Indian hemp pervaded the site but equally, it was the persistent smoking of the Indian hemp that informed his decision to sever his employment with the company.”
Speaking at the inauguration of the coalition, the co-chairman, Bello Kumo (APC, Gombe), said the lawmakers within the coalition have no candidate yet, but they are waiting for the zoning of the ruling party.
Those beating the empty drums of hate are leading their followers to places where the streets have no names.
Mr Ihedioha announced this in a Facebook post on Friday.
Mr Kehinde said that the 36 chairpersons condemned the act by the small fraction of the NWC led by Mr Lamidi and others.
Ms Adeh enjoined residents to go about their lawful businesses and report suspicious activities, persons or groups to the command on 08032003913, 08061581938,
Since that time, it has been nothing.
The North-central and South-south had the same number of attacks – 11 each – separately accounting for 24.4 per cent.
There was mild drama, on Monday, at the premises of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) High Court in Bwari, Abuja, as the factional Chairman of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), Edozie Njoku, was arrested by the Nigerian police.
Keep the dreams, but know the contours of the long road ahead,” Mr Kukah advised.
“We waited three to four years to have this board, it is time to put your house in order and stop all this ‘paper ‘tigerism’ and the fights on the pages of newspapers.
Mr Nnamani, in a statement on Thursday in Abuja, said ING was absurd and had no place in modern day democratic rule.
The court, in convicting the two journalists, said the Supreme Court never decriminalised defamation, "but rather, affirms its constitutionality."
RTEAN was suspended after factions of the association clashed in Iyana-Iba and the Lagos Island areas of the state leaving many injured.
“Meanwhile, since 2000, the number of people who experience financial hardship from out-of-pocket health spending has increased by a third, to almost two billion.
So, the party expects nothing less from you other than to be a loyal party member.”
“That is why I said that was treason; for anybody to say that if a duly elected president in Nigeria is sworn in, that will be the end of democracy is treason; for anybody to say if you swear in a duly elected president, you are swearing the military, it is treason.
From $1.6 billion in 2019, Forbes recorded that by 2022 Mr Rabiu’s net worth was at $6.9 billion and from there has jumped to $8.2 billion in April 2023.
Mr Bulkachuwa said he had experienced a similar delay when he applied for a renewal of his passport .
“The alleged planned onslaught by APC leaders on eminent Nigerians and our democratic institutions, including the Judiciary, stems from APC’s apprehensions given the weight of evidence against it as well as the continuing refusal by majority of Nigerians to accept the outcome of the flawed Presidential election.
According to the report by the Legal Policy & Research Unit of the IBA, which focuses on gender disparity in the Nigerian legal profession, only 33 per cent of senior judges in Nigeria’s judiciary are women.
It expects the development to have sweeping implications for its financials this year, saying a full recovery of the huge exceptional expense will likely happen beyond December.
When we talk about elections, it is not the money you give to an individual—logistics, people have to fly from one part of the country to another.
He said the day was identified to create awareness on the rampant increase of pollution, global warming, deforestation and destruction of environmental resources across the board.
The NLC parade belongs to everybody, including government, diplomatic missions, international organisations, organised labour and affiliate unions and members of the public.
Read Mr Ortom’s full statement
Opposition party members of the National Assembly are being courted with the likelihood of the 2015 situation presenting itself if care is not taken.
“He (Ahamefula) won’t succeed in the charge of robbery because he (Ohadoma) didn’t apply any harmful instrument on him (Ahamefula).
The four-day cooking marathon, which began on Thursday at 4 p.m., features celebrity visitations, networking, games and brand activations.
A yet-to-be-identified commercial bus driver lost his life after his bus somersaulted following a collision with a Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) vehicle on Wednesday.
“If they had gone ahead to make an arrest, it would have been that the government in power is being repressive.
10th NASS Leadership: Tinubu meets APC governors, calls for unity, cooperation with party leadership
Debt Management Office (DMO) boss, Patience Oniha.
Participation was worse in Bayelsa and Rivers states with only 16 per cent of people turning out to vote in the oil-rich states.
“When you carelessly manage your waste and pollute your environment, they have a quiet way of getting back to your food chain and getting back to poisoning you, the polluter.”
Other conditions include a comprehensive list of the evacuees, with passport numbers; valid travel documents (Passport or ETC); the presence of Nigerian government officials at the points of embarkation and standby buses that will immediately convey them to the airport.
The Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, Muktar Betara, has been making underground moves to clinch the position, his associates say.
The statement revealed that the situation at Garki International Market remained the same even after a late evening meeting on Friday between AEPB, Abuja Markets Management Limited (AMML) and shop owners.
Mr Atabo also prayed for an order to maintain status quo prior to the commencement of this action, and for other orders the court may find fit to make.
Nigeria’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs said it is in contact with the Sudanese authorities and has, through the Nigerian Embassy in Khartoum, made an official request for permission to evacuate Nigerian students and other members of the Nigerian community who may wish to depart the country.
The Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, has donated 100 hectares of land to the Nigeria Peace Corps (NPC) for the construction of its South-West zonal training school.
Moving the motion, Mr Abejide said several dead and fictitious persons were discovered in the voters’ register.
He assured of his readiness to provide the necessary support to both the community and the security agents to ensure the perpetrators were brought to book.
The police also supported the team.
Find out what their fears are, if you don’t come close to them, but you just keep assuming, then they go to vote and vote it out again.
The Commissioner of Police called on the members of the public to always report officers who violate the rules of engagement to the police for necessary action.
“It is imperative that, for the sake of Akwa Ibom and her development, media practitioners should revert to their professional role of mediating between the masses and events, instead of being transmitters of falsehood.
I know and can relate to the Labour Party on whose platform he contested elections.
“I want to say without any fear of contradiction that INEC under Prof. Mahmood Yakubu is doing well,’’ he said.
He said permanent secretaries in Ebonyi were among the best in the country and added that they should strive to maintain the Ebonyi standard.
Mr Abure reiterated that the LP is only a political party contesting for power but regrettably it is being suffocated.
The two parties, the commission said, signed the agreement at a ceremony which was part of a one-day Public Private Partnership (PPP) Summit organised by the commission in Lagos.
“I will obviously always always back my parents.
The Presidential Election Petition Court began its sitting in Abuja last Monday.
He was born on 3rd November 1957 and hails from Orokam Local Government Area of Benue State.
His emergence followed the death of the president-general of the Igbo group, George Obiozor, which was announced in December.
The CPJ says the conviction of the journalists for defamation “sends a chilling message to the Nigerian press and highlights the urgent need for authorities to reform the country’s laws and ensure journalism is not criminalised.”
Residents of thr community claimed those abducted included those who went to fetch firewood, those who went to start clearing their farmlands ahead of the rainy season and traditional medicine sellers who had gone to pluck medicinal leaves.
Although Alhaji Isa Funtua was a good friend of my late father and someone for whom I had a lot of respect…I did not understand his rejection.
Under the Nigerian constitution, Chimamandi’s franchise, constitutional right to vote and be voted for, is guaranteed but the writer opted to snub the legal right by refusal to collect a PVC- Permanent Voter’s Card.
BUA Chairman ends tenure as chair France-Nigeria Business Council; Wigwe takes over
“Dankarami also came with dangerous weapons; the locals are telling us that they have never seen bandits in large numbers and the type of weapons they have.
He added that the commission recorded attacks on 75 INEC facilities.
“I am not doing this because of my appointment (as a commissioner), but for God and humanity,” Mrs Obinabo told PREMIUM TIMES, Saturday afternoon.
Mr Gambo said since last week, the government “has continued to work at the site carrying out construction without honouring the injunction.”
I think the intention of the lawmakers was that monies contributed by incorporated associations should be transparently managed.
The Board of Trustees of the Aliko Dangote Foundation announced it has resolved to be fully involved in the evacuation and resettling of thousands of Nigerians that are stranded in Sudan.
“Against the backdrop of the story in some media that the federal government has suspended the removal of petrol subsidy, the government has said that it has not suspended the removal, but has rather expanded the subsidy removal committee to include teams from the incoming administration and the state governors,” the statement said.
Mr Kanu was forcibly extradited from Kenya by the Nigerian government in June 2021, to face terrorism charges in Abuja.
“The process of the appointment of the new principal officers of the Ilesa University is crude, illegal and stinks to high heavens as it would be an impossible Utopia for it to surmount legal firepower in any court of law.”
Oluseun Abimbola, SAN – ALTERNATE CHAIRMAN
He was also Co-Chair of the Partnership for Central America, a coalition of private organisations that works to advance economic opportunity across underserved populations in El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras.
Mr Nansel said the former deputy governor regained freedom at about 9:00 p.m. on Sunday and has been reunited with his family.
The hearings continue on Tuesday.
Mr Haastrup said the five-day warning strike would “definitely affect the health services across the country as resident doctors comprise a large chunk of their staff composition.”
Why court should dismiss Atiku’s petition against my victory – Tinubu
The Nigerian police have said their officers on patrol must be fully kitted in the approved uniform.
”As you can see, some patients are waiting to be attended to.
“I appreciate all stakeholders, especially the MCGL team, led by Mrs Nneka Dikeocha, for the great feat achieved,” Mrs Oduenyi said.
“Apart from that, President Muhammadu has constructed a lot of road kilometres, fighting corruption.
Billy Osawaru (APC), member-elect, Orhionmwon/Uhunmwonde Federal Constituency in Edo, described his election as free, fair and credible.
“Their actions show that they are working against the party to destroy it.
Mr Keyamo, at the end of the expiration of the 72 hours ultimatum, filed a suit at the Federal High Court in Abuja seeking an order compelling the security agencies to arrest Atiku.
As the crisis deepens, humanitarians warn that people are running out of food, fuel and other vital supplies, and many urgently need medical care.
!” he said.
He said the AGF on the other hand has been accused of receiving money from outside the country without remitting same to the Federation Account.
PREMIUM TIMES had reported that the zoning of the presiding officers of the 10th Assembly as done by the ruling party excluded the North-central.
According to the charge, the offences contravene Sections 324, 316(1) and 451(6)(J) of the Criminals Code, Cap 37 Vol.
The IMF noted that risks to the outlook are heavily skewed to the downside, with the chances of a hard landing having risen sharply.
Social cohesion is diminished, particularly where media falls into the hands of those who co-opt it to advance their own political or factional agendas.
The minister said the project would be an enduring legacy and a testimony of the utmost importance the Federal Government had so far taken in terms of corrections, the welfare of inmates as well as staff.
I personally spoke with him and he is in good spirits.
Mr Ayangbesan, who is a resident of Iloti in Ijebu-Ode Local Government Area of Ogun State, also claimed that he is a herbalist and not a ritualist.
It’s a practice of that psychologists called projecting.
The group equally resolved to carry out investigation into the incident to determine the number of Igbo killed and injured as well as their destroyed properties just as they vowed to ensure prosecution of the attackers and compensation for victims of the attacks.
Senate celebrates Ekweremadu at 61
The prosecution says Oluwaseun Osinbajo ignored warning signals and ran bis bus into an incoming train, resulting in the death of six persons
The girls were released without the payment of a ransom
Moving the application on Monday, April 3, 2023, counsel to the EFCC, Bilikisu Buhari, submitted that the money was “reasonably suspected to be proceeds of an unlawful activity.”
Speaking to the BBC, the Nigerian singer-songwriter expressed her gratitude for the once-in-a-lifetime opportunity.
Mr Nwite had, on 22 March, dismissed an application filed by Mr Kyari and others seeking an order dismissing the NDLEA’s charge against them.
A customer with First Bank, Mary Etim said she travelled to Eket or Uyo – spending N2, 000 transport fare for each trip – to resolve failed POS transactions which was her only means of getting money then, before the CBN relaxed its restriction on naira circulation.
Total = 7hrs 30min.
"Those alleging that I will be stooge or rubber stamp of the outgoing Speaker, Gbajabiamila, and President-elect, Sen. Bola Tinubu, are either ignorant of my antecedent or they are being mischievous."
It means there has been massive consultation.
But at this time, how many people are in the contest?
“The dreaded hoodlums gained access into the highly-fortified palace through the fence and on sighting the Eze, they shot at him severally and abandoned him in a pool of his blood to die, after which they fled into hiding,” Ms Onovwakpoyeya stated.
According to her the “realisation and completion of the Secretariat, which I’m very proud to note was funded by the support of the Nigerian government, member states and private donors”.
He also pointed out that the COVID-19 pandemic worsened the situation by bringing about social restrictions and heightening public distrust in the health systems.
And we want them to hasten the residential quarters for all resident doctors so we can stay close to the hospital and be able to do our job,” he said.
Like other states in Nigeria’s South-east, security has deteriorated in Imo State with frequent attacks by armed persons.
He said the incident was reported at the Agbado divisional headquarters by the deceased’s daughter, after which the DPO, Awoniyi Adekunle, arrested the officials.
Section 39, which is closely related to Section 22, provides that: “Every person shall be entitled to freedom of expression, including the freedom to hold opinions and to receive and impart ideas and information without interference”.
Within this period, the LP claimed Mr Obi has been under pressure to leave the country or face the prospect of being arrested on false charges of inciting insurrection in the country.
According to him, the new action plan will help prove that Nigeria is working in tandem with International best practices with regard to the protection of human rights.
The shady mode of bringing him back to Nigeria was cited by the Court of Appeal as the basis for dismissing the charges against him and ordering his release in October 2022.
“If he merely took the property as a lien, for instance… because the law actually allows a person, in some limited circumstances, to hold on the property of the person that is owing him or her as a lien,” he stated.
Can we get away with Muslim/Muslim?
NPFL: Akwa trounce Kwara United as Rangers earn vital point against Dakkada
10:58am: Mr Maduabuchi insists Mr Umuebe does not represent the AA.
The president said the United Kingdom was a second home for many Nigerians, and relations between the two countries will continue to wax strong.
“I was with him shortly before I departed to Saudi Arabia for the Lesser Hajj.
Abubakar Makki from Jigawa State has also declared interest to join the race.
To achieve that, we have to work harmoniously with the Executive Arm, without compromising our independence.
Transcorp, a conglomerate of ten companies in oil and gas, power as well as hotel and hospitality sectors, generates more than half of its revenue from electricity generation.
President Buhari did not advance any reason why he vetoed the 19 Bills, most of which deal with substantive issues of transparency and good governance.
In cancelling the deal, the then Umar Yar’adua administration said the terms of the concession at the time were not favourable to the country.
“I, therefore, hereby, plead with the abductors not to harm Mr Wali, SAN and make a passionate appeal for his release to his family.
He said: “This school made all of us who we are today.
The presidency said Wednesday that Mr Buhari “has taken due notice of judgment by the Federal High Court, Abuja, restoring Senator Ifeanyi Ararume as the non-executive Chairman of Nigeria National Petroleum Company Limited (NNPCL).”
Office of the Vice President
The West African Examinations Council (WAEC) announced this at a pre-examination press briefing Thursday in Lagos.
In his intervention, Mr Adetayo said there is a need to do more surveys to add more feed resources to existing data banks.
It’s almost like a woman who is already eight months pregnant, just a month to deliver,” he responded.
That cannot be robbery in any case except if there was the use of force,” said Mr Adodo, an-Abuja based legal practitioner.
It seemed that nobody was ready to take account of the delivery of even 1 (one) unit of housing, he added.
The Governor of Kano State, Abdullahi Ganduje, has announced that governors of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) have resolved to zone the next Senate President to the South-south geopolitical region of the country.
“For Africa to move forward, he said the Continent has to get rid of malaria once and for all.
The Labour Party (LP) candidate, Peter Obi came third with a total of 6,101,533 votes.
The permanent secretary in the state’s Ministry of health, Olusegun Ogboye, had also on Saturday told PREMIUM TIMES that the state is taking proper care of the patients based on the WHO protocols.
Forbes said Mr Kirsh is believed to be into real estate, retail and fashion and the first time he would be featured as an African billionaire.
Our citizens, fired by patriotism, braved the harsh weather (rain or heat), hunger, thirst, depending on their locations across the country.
Supreme Court adjourns Nigerian govt’s appeal challenging Nnamdi Kanu’s release
The judge, Emeka Nwite, gave the order following an application to the effect by Sunday Joseph, counsel for the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA).
Also speaking on the alliance, Abdulmummin Jibrin, a member-elect on the platform of NNPP from Kano State, assured his colleagues that they can achieve their aim, as long as they are united.
“We will continue loving him and before a fortnight, he will be in Ebonyi to inaugurate the project,” he said.
She made this known at the 10th General Assembly of the mission at the State House Banquet Hall in Nigeria’s capital, Abuja on Monday.
The commissioner advised members of the public, particularly parents, to be very watchful of their kids against criminal-minded elements who are roaming about seeking whom to take advantage of and report suspicious characters to the Police.
The minister, however, urged the incoming government to create a work plan for addressing those issues as governance was a continuous process.
Towing CAC’s line of argument, the Attorney General of the Federation, argued that Mr Ekpenyong had no right to institute the suit.
The Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NiDCOM) says 2,518 Nigerians have been evacuated from Sudan back home.
Sudan: We’ll probe Egypt’s reluctance to grant access to returning Nigerians — Gbajabiamila
The APC urged the tribunal to discountenance the petitions, in three separate responses filed at PEPC’s Secretariat, Sunday night, by Thomas Ojo, a member of the party’s legal team led by Lateef Fagbemi in Abuja.
Presidential candidate Peter Obi and the Presidential Campaign Council of his party, the Labour Party (LP), have described as ‘faked and doctored’ the leaked audio of the conversation between Mr Obi and the founder of Living Faith Church, David Oyedepo.
The Force Public Relations Officer, Olumuyiwa Adejobi, in a statement on Thursday, said the meeting discussed issues affecting the commission and the Nigeria Police Force.
For immediate fiscal reforms, Agora Policy said the government needs to take decisive action on boosting oil revenue by ending oil theft and removal of the petrol subsidy.
Obio/Akpor Local Government Area has 1,211 polling units across its 17 wards.
“Over the last seven years, our visionary team dominated by young Nigerians from both private and public sectors, led by Dr Jumoke Oduwole, have designed and implemented a series of reform initiatives at the federal level with measurable success.
Bloomberg first reported on Tuesday that Tinubu’s son, Oluwaseyi, is the main shareholder of Aranda Overseas Corporation, an offshore company that bought a controversial US$10.8 million U.K. property in 2017.
Also, the Governor of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, in his message encouraged Lagosians “to use this occasion to renew our faith and hope for a brighter future.”
The Inspector-General of Police, Usman Alkali (IGP), has presented N38.3 million to 16 families of police officers who lost their lives in active service in Anambra State.
The academic said he found it “most bewildering” that Ms Adichie, a “privileged Nigerian-born writer, has decided to paint her country of origin black.”
Mr Iwuanyanwu was unanimously endorsed as the group’s president-general during a meeting of Ohanaeze Imeobi at Enugu’s Banquet Hall on Sunday.
The police say they have have rescued one of the persons abducted by the gunmen.
In a video that went viral, Mr Ari perpetrated the illegal declaration under the protection of the commandant of the state NSCDC, commissioner of police and commander of the DSS.
The Ohanaeze president-general listed other priorities of his administration including reviving agriculture, and industries and revitalisation of the educational system in the South-east with a focus on information and communication technology.
We have also held national prayers for the nation.
According to court documents seen by PREMIUM TIMES, she filed a joint petition with her partner for the removal of the conditions for her permanent residency on the basis of being married to a citizen.
He stated also that the Commissioner of Police of the state, Afolabi Babatola, commended operatives of Toungo Divisional Police Office and the hunters for their gallantry.
The Sector Commander in the state, Stephen Dawulung, said the incident occurred at about 3:30 a.m. at Irepeni village along Zariagi-Okene road.
Mr Nwachukwu, a brigadier general, said that several units had also been established an operationalised and deserving of new colours.
Other appointees are Muhammed Lawan who was appointed as Zonal Deputy Chief Inspector, Shari’a Court of Appeal and Muhammed Adamu as Zonal Deputy Chief Inspector, Shari’a Court of Appeal, the official said.
However, every deepfake generated on the app has a clear and visible watermark indicating that the video is a deepfake.
He said “we seem to be hoodlumizing our younger generation”
• Solomon Olamilekan Adeola – Ogun West
In the process, Mr Liman was transferred out of the Lagos Division but is now presiding over the case on a fiat.
The police in Lagos State have said their officers pictured without the ‘approved uniform’ were not on patrol.
The petitioner’s lawyer, Emeka Ozoani, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), urged the court to overturn the president-elect’s victory.
A magistrate’s court in Abuja, on Tuesday, rescheduled the trial of a pastor of the House on the Rock Refuge Church, Uche Aigbe, who faces charges of illegal possession of firearms.
The survey noted that output prices rose “at the softest pace in almost three years,” while suppliers’ delivery times reduced after having lengthened in the previous month.
“He was a jewel of the Law Profession and an accomplished judicial officer of prodigious hue.
“His posture got me upset and I started recording with my phone.
He contended that his removal by through a letter dated 17 January 2022 with reference number SGF.
In the North-central Mr Tinubu polled 1,670,091 votes
Wike declares Wednesday public holiday in Rivers over Tinubu’s visit
In a video that has gone viral, the “Afrobeat’’ musician wearing a red shirt atop a white pair of trousers was seen slapping a policeman standing by a police van.
The Executive Secretary of the fund, Sonny Echono, made this known on Thursday at a news conference in Abuja, to give a further breakdown of the 2023 intervention budget of N320 billion recently approved by President Muhammadu Buhari.
He said he felt exposed to harm after the SSS withdrew its personnel and the police scaled down their own.
The court gave his reasons for refusing to order the removal of Mr Tambuwal as the governor of Sokoto State.
“For the plea of double jeopardy as submitted by the defence, the offence must be one or the same and must have the same ingredients.
The commission pegged the cost of a seat of Hajj to be paid by Nigerian intending Pilgrims at a total cost of a little less than three million Naira only.
Many of the critics deplored it as the usual practice of Nigerian public officers being quick to rush abroad where security and clean environment is more guaranteed
Call the FPRO,” she told PREMIUM TIMES via phone call.
The bank is not paying dividend for 2022 the same way it did not announce cash rewards for shareholders for 2021, according to its annual report.
I think he was making a very strong point about the election.
Team Fistula Fighters’ innovation addresses the management of urinary incontinence caused by a vesicovaginal fistula, an abnormal opening between the bladder and vaginal wall that causes involuntary discharge of urine from the vagina.
Much later in the day, there were reports that the scenes were getting ugly with evidence of a return to our old ways now known as voter suppression: ballot box snatching, intimidation, physical violence against ordinary citizens, with reported incidents of injuries and outright killings.
“After close to 20 years, Akin-Olugbade moved to the African Development Bank’s Operations complex and was appointed Country Manager for the Ghana Country Office, a position she held from 2010 to 2016.
Inaugurating the committees, Kadaria Ahmed, a member of the IPI Nigeria’s Board of Trustees (BOT), noted that the challenges ahead of the executive committee were enormous, adding that it was the right decision to constitute the committees to help drive the organisation’s objectives.
Security sources told PREMIUM TIMES that the attack occurred between Thursday and Friday on the outskirts of Buni Gari.
“We have been in this Assembly, there is no time, two presiding officers are zoned to one area.
Mr Obi’s largest votes at the time came from Port Harcourt City Local Government Area where he scored 62,451 votes, while Atiku scored 7,203 votes, followed by Mr Tinubu, who scored 5,562 votes.
Mr Tinubu is billed to commission the Rumuola/Rumuokwuta flyover and the new Magistrate Courts Complex on 3 and 4 May.
Bothered about several unsubstantiated claims on social media over the issue, this newspaper wrote to the UK Home Office on 13 April, seeking to understand the circumstances surrounding Mr Obi’s ordeals in the European country during Easter for accurate reporting.
At least four people have reportedly been killed in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State, in a renewed clash between two rival cult groups in the city.
She said: “The choice of China was deliberate, as China is one of the world’s top strategic trading partners.
The prosecutor is pushing for the court to order the defendant to make full restitution in the amount outstanding at the time of sentencing.
The misplaced reference to certain “The smoldering disillusionment felt by many Nigerians” in her letter is, at best Chimamanda’s sole experience of agonies of defeat suffered by her and her preferred candidate/Party in the recently concluded Presidential elections in Nigeria.
“We had expected the government to act swiftly and arrest the ugly situation, but unfortunately, the situation has persisted,” he said.
We’ve already seen that by channeling resources to the most promising public health opportunities, we can have an impact across all areas of life.”
He added that INEC had received assurances from security agencies of adequate cover and protection for voters, election duty staff and other stakeholders during the election.
Also arraigned alongside Mr Oleyelegun are a member of the state House of Assembly, Felemu Bankole of Akoko South West Constituency 1 and Segun Oyadeyi, an employee at the assembly
Citizens struggle to use their votes to choose those they can trust but the violent insist on taking power by the means they know best.
PREMIUM TIMES previously reported how Stephen Ntukekpo, the man who is the APC chairman in Akwa Ibom, backed by Mr Akpabio, used forged documents to obtain a court judgment which removed from office the validly elected chairman and other exco members of the party in the state.
The Nigerian police have demoted an officer who was filmed slapping a motorist in Emouha, Rivers State, South-south Nigeria.
Onuoha: You saw it in my declaration.
Timeless Concert: Davido’s highly anticipated show shuts down Lagos (PHOTOS)
“Anyone saying we are not prepared must be saying that out of ignorance,” he said.
National Assembly management begins training of senators, Reps-elect
“The improvements in these areas have collectively enhanced the army’s capacity to effectively carry out its constitutional mandate.
But the police spokesperson in the state, Abimbola Oyeyemi, said it was a robbery incident.
Now, most things they said were not available including medications, and dialysis machine have been made available.
Imo Governorship: Uzodimma secures APC ticket for second term
Mr Heappey made this known while speaking with journalists at the British High Commission on Tuesday in Abuja.
A new social enterprise has opened in Oyo, south-west Nigeria, to help enhance entrepreneurship.
According to him, the commemoration of this day is not an opportunity to apportion blame to any individual, Institution or group of persons but it is a period to reminisce the fundamental principles of press freedom.
Meanwhile, in his remarks, Kennedy Wariso, Head of Department, Medical Microbiology and Parasitology, University of Port Harcourt, said the programme optimises the use of antimicrobials, improve patient outcomes, reduce AMR and health-care-associated infections, and saves health-care costs amongst others.”
“This will restore the confidence of the people from the South-east and South-south geo-political zones and indeed all Nigerians in the unity of the country.”
“Having listened to all the parties, we are satisfied that there is no collusion.
In total, Mr Ugo has put in a total of 17 years to his career on the bench, and a total of 33 years to his legal profession that started with his call to bar in 1990.
If we must continue staying away from work on Mondays, then we will start coming to work on Saturday,” he said.
The All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) have asked the Presidential Election Petition Court in Abuja to dismiss Peter Obi’s petition challenging Bola Tinubu’s victory.
The said payments are alleged to have been made to one Paste Poster Co (PPC) of No 125 Lewis St., Lagos, in excess of amounts allowed by law.
“Our national politics have been rewritten.
PT: We cannot talk about plans without mentioning the attitude of the National Assembly toward gender bills.
“My support for Peter Obi is rooted in real things, my faith in his ability.
The Executive Secretary of the Jigawa Pilgrims Board, Ahmad Labbo, told reporters that the board has also secured hotel accommodations close to the holy site (Ka’aba) for the state pilgrims in Mecca unlike in the previous hajj exercise.
Governor Hope Uzodinma of Imo State has denied a report that gunmen attacked his convoy and killed seven police officers along Ngor Okpala-Aba Road in the state on Saturday.
“It is becoming common and regular and if we fail to act now, it becomes a norm.
Priority will, however, be given to children, students and women, she said.
President-elect, Bola Tinubu and Vice, Kashim Shettima [PHOTO: TW @channelstv]Mr Tinubu’s camp apparently believes that a Muslim from the South aspiring for the presidency of Nigeria must adopt the 1993 winning ticket of Moshood Abiola and Babagana Kingibe.
P&ID did not respond to specific questions from OCCRP about the payments to Bozimo.
The Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika, who also spoke on the outcome of the council meeting again assured that the indigenous airline – Nigeria Air, would take off on or before May 29.
As for Common Input Property and Investment Ltd’s punishment, the judge ordered that it should be wound up and its assets forfeited to the federal government.
Geographically, the South-west had the most attacks with 17 or 37.8 per cent.
While the judge overrruled the AGF’s preliminary the objection, he upheld the National Assembly’s argument over the plaintiff’s failure to serve it a pre-action notice.
Recovered from her include 1,100ML of codeine-based cough syrup and 283 grams of cannabis.
Members that are equal among members must be respected.
Rather, the interest of the nation.
The Americans were led to the Ooni by the Asoju Asa of Ile Oodua, Dotun Taylor.
• Lawal Adamu Usman Kaduna Central
SERAP is arguing that “identifying, arresting, investigating and prosecuting any politicians and their sponsors suspected to be responsible for electoral offences during the elections would end the impunity of perpetrators.
In 2020, newspapers alone suffered a global revenue loss of $30 billion.
The PSC chairman urged the CPs to brace up and settle down as quickly as possible for duty ahead of the national transition period.
Charles’ grandson Prince George and the grandchildren of Camilla acted as pages, and although a Christian service, at the end there will be an “unprecedented” greeting from faith leaders.
“We want to take him along, he travelled out of the country after the election and he came back only last week and we have to carry him along,” he said.
In the tweet, the defendant claimed that Mr Offor had been engaged by the president-elect to beg Peter Obi, the Labour Party presidential candidate, to accept the result of the 25 February election.
According to a statement by Mr Obasanjo’s media aide, Kehinde Akinyemi, the team left Nigeria on Thursday for the summit scheduled to begin on Friday in the DRC capital.
After a brief ceasefire on Friday due to the Muslim Eid al-Fitr celebrations that mark the end of Ramadan, fighting continued overnight.
Mr Yakubu, through his counsel, Ahmed Raji, filed the suit before Justice Inyang Ekwo of a Federal High Court, Abuja.
One week after fighting erupted between the Sudanese army and the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF), over 300 people have died and at least 3,200 people injured.
The NDDC has reacted to the chairperson's remarks.
“They said I demolished the mosque in Onitsha, I made Muslims to carry ID cards.
The effort of the government to get the students educated will not go in vain,” Mr Magaji said.
Mr Omorogbe expressed regret that the violence led to the shooting of one of the corps members on election duty in the leg.
Namibia’s ruling South West Africa People’s Organisation also received military and other support from the Soviet Union in its liberation struggle.
The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) declared a sitting member of the House, Tolulope Akande-Sadipe of the APC, as winner of the Oluyole Federal Constituency seat while Abass Agboworin of the PDP won in Ibadan South-East/North-East Federal Constituency.
In this interview with PREMIUM TIMES’ Ameh Ejekwonyilo, Mr Ekpenyong speaks on his motivation to challenge the law, and how he intends to enforce the judgement.
The Supreme Court adjourned the hearing of the federal government’s appeal against the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu’s release.
And for these reasons, “the appeal against the sentence is also dismissed.”
Ms Williams advised interested applicants to visit FRSC verified portal: www.recruitment.frsc.gov.ng where the application does not attract any fee.
He assured that intending pilgrims would get the rudiments of performing Hajj in order to have value for their hard-earned money paid to perform the religious obligation.
The case is before the Federal Capital Territory High Court, Bwari, Abuja.
Others are four representatives of the Start-up Consultative Forum, one representative of the Nigeria Computer Society, one representative of the Computer Professionals (Registration Council of Nigeria) and the Director-General, NITDA, who will serve as Secretary of the Council.
Nobody has discussed such a plan with us, and in any case, senators-elect are the ones to decide who they want as president or deputy president.”
She said some Nigerians in diaspora had paid off the first hospital bill of the child who was still undergoing medical examinations and treatments to ascertain the extent of damage inflicted by the suspect.
Mr Adepoju said all efforts to arraign Mr Afolabi in court have so far been unsuccessful as several letters written to the police authorities were all ignored.
FACT CHECK: How accurate are Buhari’s claims on Nigerian military’s firepower?
He also stressed the need for transparency, technology, inclusiveness and data investments in the new administration.
He said that preliminary investigation showed that the patrol team while acting on credible intelligence through visible policing duties, extended its presence to some black spots, highways and roads to deter criminal elements from settling and establishing dominance within the area.
“I think it’s time for the party to reward the zone for the massive votes rather than start looking for somebody from the South as Senate President,” he said.
My antecedents have always been that of service to humanity.
The APC candidate also won four out of the six states in the region.
He said this was made possible because of the low-profile he kept.
“The bandits were overpowered and escaped with various degrees of bullet injuries leaving behind their victims,” she said.
However, the Nigerian government on Monday said the Egyptian authorities had opened their country’s border for 5,500 Nigerians fleeing Sudan to cross following the intervention of President Muhammadu Buhari.
I think we need a Christian, maybe Christian southerner.
Honorary Fellow of the Society for Advanced Legal Studies.
In the fresh suit marked: CA/CV/259/2023, the plaintiff, Mr Owuru, is seeking an order of the Court of Appeal barring Mr Tinubu’s inauguration as Nigeria’s next president on 29 May.
It is unconstitutional so anything unconstitutional as far as I am concerned is not applicable.”
That should be taken as a serious offer.
“Government has revised regulations pertaining to woodworking machinery and the entire ecosystem which dated back to 1959.
“This is in addition to the planned Nigerian Morocco and the Trans Sahara Gas Pipeline projects which will supply gas to sub-regional African countries and subsequently Europe.
“It is my pleasure to express my heartfelt gratitude to all for the excellent relationship that both my family and I enjoyed with you during the last eight years.
‘‘Our role as the governing council is many-sided.
The court decision awarded whopping N5 billion damages in favour of Mr Ararume, whose removal from office the court adjudged to be illegal on Tuesday.
The World Health Organisation (WHO) says global life expectancy for both sexes has increased from 46 to 73 years, with the biggest gains in the poorest countries.
The social media celebrity was equally absent in court on 16 June 2022.
The PREMIUM TIMES also learnt that the Vice-Chancellor also approved the appointment of M.D.A.
“That the applicant (Mr Owuru) is the adjudged 1st in time constitutional winner of the February 16, 2019, presidential election reserves the right of first refusal over any later presidential election returns in the face of usurpation of adjudged acquired constitutional rights,” a paragraph of the affidavit read.
He described TB as an airborne disease caused by a bacteria called “Mycobacterium tuberculosis” which usually attacks the lungs and could also damage other parts of the body.
The house, thereafter, set up an ad hoc committee to investigate the alleged misconduct of the suspended members and submit its report in one week.
However, Mr Akinbajo noted that the media is really trying to deepen climate change and food security reporting in the country.
“With very deep heart and gratitude to Almighty Allah, Our Dad, Prince Bola Ajibola, departed this world over midnight.
Two rocket launchers, four AK-47 rifles, one automatic pump action, four magazines, eight live ammunition, police berets and charms were among the items recovered from the gunmen, according to the police.
She reiterated that latecomers are automatically marked as being absent from the examination.
“The Supreme Court has shown that Biafrans are not safe in Nigeria.
The leadership of the National Assembly also criticized the approach adopted by the federal government to distribute the social grants to Nigerians especially during the coronavirus lockdown.
On the other hand, it said Trade Fair in Lagos offered the lowest cost for preparing the dish at N8,850.
Mr Diri, a former senator, in his remark, promised to lead the party to victory, pointing out that Bayelsa was a PDP state judging from the presidential and National Assembly elections.
“This is irresponsible and reckless journalism,” Mr Mohammed was quoted as saying.
United States President Joe Biden has formally announced his intention to run for a second tenure in 2024.
“Sir, while still appealing through this medium that you use your good office to address this issue in time, please accept our unflinching regard.”
He occupies the 71st position on the list of judges of the Court of Appeal, ranking higher than only five others with whom he was elevated to the bench in 2021.
The speaker, in a statement by his spokesperson, Lanre Lasisi on Saturday, said the 37 years old politician was ready to serve the country.
Mr President, you may be torn between loyalty to your party and doing the right thing according to your conscience.
Speaking to PREMIUM TIMES over the phone Sunday night, Sani Halliru, the state chairman of the NLC, said with April that has now ended, the state government is owing the majority of workers three months’ salaries.
0458028956 domiciled in GT Bank Plc under the guise of executing a contract for the supply of water pumps awarded by Norwegian Refugee Council a Non- Governmental Organisation and thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under section 320 (a) and 322 of the Penal Code Cap 102 Laws of Borno State.”
In February, his report on the perceptions of smallholder farmers growing genetically modified crops in Nigeria was shortlisted for the 2023 True Story award.
Lagos-Ibadan Expressway: FRSC tells travellers to seek alternative routes
“We also know from economic principles that when there is an increased demand for a service, commodity or product without corresponding supply, there will be shortages and price increases.
“We have also deployed officers to Malam Aminu Kano International Airport in Kano and the metropolis to monitor the exercise.
He added that given the measures already in place for continuous plan implementation, successive administrations will find the document useful in the delivery of electoral promises.
INEC had promised Nigerians that it would promptly upload the results as stated in its guidelines.
The NBA standing committees have over 800 lawyers as members.
”They also forgot that the African Union Election Observation Mission to Nigeria said the atmosphere was generally calm and peaceful in 95 per cent of the polling units visited.
The Managing Director of the agency, Adesoji Adesugba, made this known at the presentation of the licence to the Delta Special Economic Zone on Wednesday in Abuja.
“The whole issue is resolved against the appellant and the appeal fails, this is the position of the court,’’ the judge said.
Two of Mr Tinubu’s opponents in the election, Atiku Abubakar and Peter Obi, are however, still challenging the results of the election in court.
Why the hurry to concession such strategic national assets within a narrow window of less than six weeks?
He disclosed that FEC approved the bill for onward transmission to the National Assembly by the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice
“We have to respond to that (to explain the) circumstances under which he left Nigeria and those facts had been validated by Abia court in Umuahia,” he responded.
— Ibrahim Kazeem (Content writer and SMM) (@peng_writer) May 14, 2023
The defendants pleaded not guilty to the charges.
Mr Okafor’s coronation came about four years after Charles Anikweze was issued with a certificate of recognition by former Governor of the state, Willie Obiano, on 2 May 2019, as the traditional ruler of the community.
He assured Lagosians and residents of the Lekki Coastal axis that the shanties will never be allowed to spring up again, adding that men of the Taskforce would be stationed to monitor the axis forthwith.
The Presidential Election Petition Court sought the cooperation of lawyers and litigants at its inaugural sitting on Monday.
Some residents of the affected communities attacked Fulani settlers after their relatives where abducted by terrorists.
He also urged the troops to deliver excellent services and exemplary leadership to promote the image of the Armed Forces and Nigeria at large.
Other members of the forum at the meeting were Audu Umaru, national welfare director (Borno); Ahmad Khalil, national treasurer (Yobe); and Paul Gbande, director of publicity (Benue).
The three sub-committees inaugurated are those on Fund Raising, Programme and Advocacy; Hajia Sani, Chairperson
“I join the government and other stakeholders to commend the efforts of health workers and all those working hard to keep us healthy,” he said.
This is something we have found ourselves in—the bad work culture over the years.”
As a genre, historians believe Fuji music emanated from the Yoruba Muslim communities, evolving from the call to prayer songs played during the seasonal Ramadan celebrations.
“All companies need to adapt to changing market circumstances and now is the right time for us to reposition Unilever Nigeria Plc.
Residents said over 50 human skulls had been removed from their graves over the past few months by suspected ritualists believed to operate in the town at night.
Transcorp’s quarterly profit falls by 63% amid galloping costs, forex loss
[PHOTO CREDIT: Francis Nwaze]“Government is a poor manager of resources but we are seriously interested in the revenue generated from the facility,” he said.
Election petitions set the stage for a paradox for democracy to break its prime “majority rule”.
“We have six geo-political zones, in the North, we have three, the North-west, the North-east and the North-central.
She pledged to get back to the reporter but failed till nightfall.
Mr Ari declared the APC candidate winner while the collation of the results of Saturday’s supplementary election had not been concluded.
The $350 People’s Choice Award went to Team BambasúAid from Universidad de Los Andes, Colombia.
He also prayed the court to determine whether the provisions on the Administrative Proceeding Committee in section 851 of CAMA, 2020 was inconsistent with the provisions of Section (6)(6)(b) and Sections 36(1) and 251(1) (e) of the 1999 Constitution.
The policy, he said, affected him as a lawyer and an Ijebu man.
The Chairperson of the Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NIDCOM), Abike Dabiri-Erewa, explained the situation in a tweet.
President Muhammadu Buhari has again expressed satisfaction with the conduct of the 2023 general elections in Nigeria, considering the turnout of voters and the generally peaceful atmosphere under which it took place.
She said the ruling All Progressives Congress is just trying to derail from what is important to Nigerians by accusing her of not voting in the election.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the event featured the distribution of awards to no fewer than 70 outstanding staff members by the Managing Director of the company, Oluwaseun Owoseni.
A tripartite deal was reached between Kano State Pension Trust Funds as the investors and Kano State Investment and Property Limited and Kano State Housing Corporation Limited as developers on a 60:40 sharing ratio.
But despite the appellate court’s order on 17 August 2022, Mr Sharif-Aminu is still being incarcerated.
Defendants in the suit are the PDP, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Abdul Ningi, the chairman of the ad hoc delegates and Warman Ogorija, the secretary.
If the ICC were to issue arrest warrants for the two antagonists in Sudan’s war, Abdel-Fattah al-Burhan and Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo, and one of them emerged as Sudan’s head of state, would Pretoria and other African capitals be happy to welcome him?
The young engineer had vowed not to return the phone until he gets his payment.
HEDA petitions ICPC over fake employment letters in civil service
“We called on Adebanjo to step down.
He said the critics whom he described as “haters” should brace themselves for more of such videos as the apartment he showed “is about the CHEAPEST of my several properties.”
He said: “I am convinced that Tinubu’s leadership will be good for Nigeria.
“As critical stakeholders, we assure the leadership of the APC, The President-Elect, The Vice President Elect, Senator Godswill Akpabio and Senator Barau Jibril of our unflinching commitment and support towards the actualisation of this objective.”
If you recall that the last time a woman was made the speaker, it was during the time of Patricia Etteh, and that is about 16 years ago.
The House of Representatives commenced the amendment of the Medical and Dental Practitioners Act to stop the migration of Nigerian-trained medical practitioners.
“The NNPP’s call was deliberately geared towards seizing control of the region by disallowing the APC from having a strong political leadership like the senate president from the region under the APC.
Reacting to the allegations, the SPDC said that on the contrary, it was a leading player in the development of local capacity in the oil and gas sector.
Standing at N23.6 billion, net trading income – the money earned from transactions in financial instruments – accelerated by 173.3 per cent compared to interest income, typically the biggest contributor to banks’ revenues, which only grew by 29.5 per cent.
“You know he insisted on one hundred million naira, but one day he called and while we were talking I told him the situation was hard and he said he would reduce twenty million, so continued gathering the money until we realized the eighty million naira,” he said.
“That no medical practitioner has given any medical opinion to any of the defendants that I am medically or physically incapable of discharging the functions of my office as a result of any infirmity of body or mind as the non-executive chairman of the 2nd defendant;
I am a product of APC’s zoning in 2019, and I shall adhere to that any time the party comes up with its arrangement.
INEC to write IGP, demand investigation, prosecution of Adamawa REC
In a bid to overturn Mr Tinubu’s victory, the APP lodged its complaint at the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal in Abuja on 19 March.
It’s also not in the interest of the country, which the president has always promoted and championed.
Ukraine to resume electricity exports to Europe after 6 month halt
‘‘In the second quarter of 2021, ICT alone, without digital services, contributed 17.92 per cent to GDP while in the second quarter of 2022, ICT contributed 18.44 per cent.
“The system is based on a self-closing mechanism (trapdoor) that prevents odour, flies and other pests in the pit from gaining access into the pan and consequently minimises spread of diseases.”
Mr Ajaero said the union had, over the years, demanded for salary review but had yet to receive the federal government’s attention.
The goal is to obtain valuable data for our editorial and sales teams to improve PREMIUM TIMES journalism and fine-tune the company’s revenue model.
The International Press Institute in Nigeria (IPI Nigeria) has set up three standing committees to drive its agenda of promoting journalism practice and media freedom in Nigeria.
Mr Irobosa, according to INEC results, received 12,436 votes, while the Labour Party’s Mr Uhumwago, coming closest as the first runner-up, got 11,245 votes.
I will borrow the phrase by Tinubu—Emi lokan!
“I think three weeks is a lot of time.
The report, titled: “Gas Expansion and the Energy Transition in Nigeria and the Niger Delta,” said the country’s weak enforcement of standards and regulations has enabled oil and gas companies to “continue to operate without due care.”
“We find that when Mr Fagbewesa realised that his bags were not available to collect on 14 February 2020, he approached staff for British Airways (the carrier for his flight) who advised him that he needed to fill out a BOR 1422, being the Border Force form called “Clearance of Missing or Delayed Baggage – Non EU arrivals”.
The delegation of two-time runners-up Nigeria has arrived in Buenos Aires, the capital of Argentina, for a 10-day camping programme ahead of this year’s FIFA U20 World Cup finals.
“Duly registered voters are expected to turn out en-masse for the exercise,’’ Mr Tella said.
A Nigerian laptop technician has won praise and admiration after he reportedly fixed a MacBook Pro for a client at a fraction of the cost charged by an official Apple dealer.
In his speech, Mr Wike said the invitation for Mr Tinubu to commission projects in the state was a fulfilment of the promise made during the President-elect’s campaign visit to Rivers.
The court found that on the morning of 15 February 2020, Mr Curtis inspected 4 black holdalls that were unaccompanied.
Mr Boye, however, argued that the alleged offences were of a serious nature and that the likelihood of conviction might put the defendant at flight risk.
Army to deploy 6,251 new soldiers to anti-crime activities – COAS
”This is in the sum of about N4.4 billion.”
Why bandit kingpin released four abducted FGC Yauri pupils
The Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has announced the arrival of the first set of electric buses for the state’s mass transit scheme.
I don’t think that many Nigerians think that now.
Senegal have qualified for the World Cup for the second time in their history, after making their debut in 2019 following Guinea’s elimination.
"The new arrivals just now are 140 adults, comprising three infants and 30 children, making a total evacuation to 2,518″.
NAN reports that plaintiffs’ lawyer, Musa, and the defence counsel, Johnson Usman, SAN, had, on 24 March, adopted their processes and presented their arguments for and against the suits.
“We don’t have a good drainage system so the water has nowhere to pass but to flood our houses.
President Buhari should not countenance this,” the Zamfara governor wrote.
The prosecution also alleged that on diverse dates between March and April 2015 Mr Kanu was illegally imported into Nigeria and kept in Ubulisluzor in Ihiala Local Government Area of Anambra State, a radio transmitter known as Tram 50L concealed in a container of used household items which he declared as used household items.
An official of the Nigerian Upstream Petroleum Regulatory Commission at Eket Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State, Stanley Okwekwe, has reportedly been abducted.
The deadly clashes erupted on Saturday.
What Chimamandi did not tell her gullible readers is that her candidate won mostly in her/his ethnic enclaves and that the President-Elect, Bola Tinubu, President Buhari, notable Nigerian Governors, Senators and others also lost in their strongholds, which should ordinarily have been their locational advantage for “manipulating” the outcome, as Chimamandi unconscionably and recklessly alleged.
A Guinean passport with details of Mr Tinubu recently surfaced on social media provoking controversy over his dual citizenship status.
Mr Eno said he was “both a victim and beneficiary of bad and good press” during the election, and that there were times he read “false” stories about himself and wondered if they were really about him or someone else.
“It is also accompanied by a judgement from Abia State as an exhibit.
The Council of Elders of the apex Igbo socio-cultural organisation, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, has appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari to prosecute those behind attacks against Igbo and destruction of their properties in Lagos State during the 2023 general elections.
CPJ also called Gwandu for comment but he did not answer.
Mr Alake, in a statement titled; “Chimamanda-Nigeria’s positively growing democracy,” said Ms Adichie deployed falsehood and lack of understanding of the issues in the letter she published in The Atlantic magazine.
While noting that the police were doing well, Mr Jamiu, raised some concerns, adding that officers should perform their duties with every sense of responsibility.
Lawmakers, who are aggrieved over the selection of Tajudeen Abbas as the consensus candidate for the speakership of the 10th House of Representatives, on Wednesday, took their protest to the National Working Committee of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC).
Mr Adamu said the government approved the establishment of the universities due to the importance of education in bolstering the economic fortunes of the country.
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Of the teams that qualified, Mali is the most experienced, having qualified five times previously.
The investigation must be holistic and not selective.
He died on Friday.
Responding to the tweet, the Nigeria Police Force spokesperson, Muyiwa Adejobi, said officers on patrol are not allowed to wear any clothes aside from the approved uniform.
Somebody you supported materially and otherwise but suddenly because I’m not a bootlicker because I refused to participate in your very myopic and intellectually stagnant presidential ambition you now see me as one not fit for the governorship.”
Gavi has also confirmed that WHO is currently assessing whether to prequalify the vaccine for wider use or not.
It has been a long time and women have come of age.
Also, several other lawmakers have indicated interest in the deputy speaker position.
Onuoha: My inspiration is drawn from the fact that I have offered myself to give a sound legislative service to the nation, starting with the 10th Assembly, as I have stated in my seven-point agenda.
Mr Banga has been awarded numerous honours throughout his career, including the Padma Shri Award by the President of India in 2016, and the Distinguished Friends of Singapore Public Service Star in 2021.
This followed the adoption of a motion titled: “Passage of Constitution (Fifth) Alteration Bill No.
He was quoted in a statement by one of his media aides, Tunde Rahman, as saying: “I am ready for the task ahead.
The WHO boss said that since then, the world has made significant progress towards realising that vision.
They warned that such an arrangement will lead to the marginalisation of the North-central.
He, however, assured that the Federal Government had provided a long-term solution to the challenges.
PREMIUM TIMES had earlier reported that Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State announced that the inner caucus of the ruling All Progressives Congress resolved to zone the senate president to the South-south in favour of Mr Akpabio.
The Commissioner of Police in the state, Echeng Echeng, disclosed this on Friday during a press conference in Awka, the state capital.
In response, Shehu said, “I work as spokesman to the President” and that Malami could speak for himself.
The Nigerian people have awakened to the enormous power of their votes.
We thank God Almighty for answering our prayers and granting us the safe return of Mr Okey Wali, SAN.
Mr Idriss said: “Around between 10 a.m to 11 a.m., we received a distress call that there was a building collapse beside the United Bank for Africa Bank (UBA) at Ademola Adetokunbo Crescent, Wuse II.
Their voices were stilted and failed to sync with the movement of their mouths.
It alleged that the transfer of the funds on 22, 23, and 24 April, and 5 May, 2014, violated the provisions of section 15(2)(b) of Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act and punishable under section 15(3) and (4) of the same law.
This is the best way to survive politically in Nigeria,” said the president, urging that “you (Governors) have a programme to meet regularly and to discuss issues and how to maintain the party nationwide.”
This special power was preserved for the President in 1999 to save pre-1999 Decrees from being declared unconstitutional.
President Muhammadu Buhari, Wednesday expressed condolences on the loss of lives of two United States embassy officials and two Nigerian policemen accompanying them in an attack by gunmen in Ogbaru Local Government Area of Anambra State.
Mr Tinubu is due to be sworn in on 29 May.
“The primary goal for the incoming government should be to unite the nation and manage our diversity.
The government also asked the court to determine whether the power of the EFCC, as an agency of the federal government, was not restricted to the matters set out in the exclusive legislative list and if the finances of the state are not matters within the concurrent legislative list as contained in the country’s 1999 Constitution.
Resident doctors are doctors undertaking training to become specialists/consultants.
This means that the Agunloye ruling house will produce the next Alaafin.
Meanwhile, Messrs Obi and Atiku are currently challenging the outcome of the presidential election in court.
Before now, the President has established the unenviable record of being the President with the highest number of vetoed bills since Independence.
That seems to be the main impetus for increased activity last week, with transaction size surging by more than two times.
He said the killings happened in his constituency during attacks at different times on villages in the area.
CPJ sent findings in its database showing that since 1992 government officials are suspected of involvement in the killings of at least four journalists: Okezie Amaruben in 1998, Fidelis Ikwuebe in 1999, Precious Owolabi in 2019, and Onifade Emmanuel Pelumi in 2020.
WHO noted that by the end of 2022, most countries reported partial signs of health service recovery.
“The party has not taken the North-central into consideration and it is outrageous.
The court ordered the reinstatement of Ifeanyi Ararume as the non-executive chair of NNPCL, and awarded N5 billion damages in his favour.
At Magajin Gari B ward, Garkar Alkali Yahaya 003 polling unit, election had commenced as early as 8 a.m and voters formed queues in an orderly manner with cooperation from the party agents.
Mr Adewinmbi said the family of the woman had been informed that she has been rescued and handed over to the police anti-kidnapping unit.
Stanbic IBTC Bank works alongside S&P Global and Nigeria’s statistics office every month to provide the data.
In the lead majority judgement read by Terste Kume, the tribunal held that INEC failed to conduct the Osun governorship election in compliance with the Electoral Act.
As Mr Apata sauntered out of the courtroom to a horde of court reporters outside, the mob, comprising young people, intercepted him.
Kano, the state with the second-highest number of registered voters in Nigeria, recorded the highest number of votes cast with 1.97 million total votes on March 18.
Mr Arase said it was in the greater interest of the country for the two organisations to work in harmony and a more transparent, responsible and responsive manner.
Saint Louis University’s Team Anemia Assessment in Resource-Poor Regions took the $250 prize for third place.
I am surrounded by people.”
In its analysis of month-to-month fluctuations, the report said it is evident that the costs generally increased from September to January.
We called Kosiso, his line was not going,” she recalled in Igbo language.
He added that genuine issues raised by some of the party’s members were being looked into by the NWC.
“The reports of some irregularities and violence in some polling units could not have affected the overall outcome of the elections too.
According to him, he has decided to station the training school in Ife due to the tireless efforts and contribution of Osun citizens in the service of humanity, especially to the growth of the corps.
“I want to assure, Sir, that the people you see seated here are those shunning dollars and shunning pounds and shunning naira.
The fact that I don’t come out to insult anybody?
While the first payment will be 1.65 percent of the principal amount, the last payment will be 3.40 percent of the principal amount.
According to him, in all these webs of rights and obligations in the world of work, the linkages between worker’s rights and socio–economic justice, have been identified and made a declaration by the ILO.
Tinubu joins Buhari, others for Jumat prayer at Aso Rock Mosque
Emerging powers India, Turkey and the Gulf states are also more actively courting African countries.
An aspirant for the Speakership of the House of Representatives, Abdulraheem Olawuyi (APC, Kwara), has said only zoning the position out of the North-central will deny him the position.
“Several factors contributed to these high prices in the North West.
Mr Biu said the 2023 edition of the event with the theme; ‘’Sustainable Transport‘’ is slated for Monday to Sunday.
And we must all appreciate the efforts of our tireless civil and public servants.
She held that the government and the police should have intervened by arresting and prosecuting those behind the fracas and not to inquire into the dispute.
However, two members of the House of Representatives Akin Alabi (APC, Oyo) and Rolland Igbakpa (PDP, Delta) denied the allegation, noting that none of the lawmakers has that type of money.
They added that the suspects linked to the case would soon be charged in court.
EFCC asks Akpabio to turn himself in over corruption investigation
“First of all, let’s put it in perspective, the intent of government is to remove the structure housing the office of the managing director of FAAN and those commercial buildings.
According to his account, Mr Trump, executives at the publishing company American Media Incorporated (AMI), Mr Cohen and others agreed in 2015 to a catch and kill scheme, that is a scheme to buy and suppress negative information to help the former president’s chance of winning the election.
Ghana’s President to chair book launch on Buhari
He alleged that his words had been instrumentalised to make headlines out of it.
Mr Agboworin, who is also the current occupant of the seat, was declared elected after he polled 28,111 votes to win the supplementary election.
“Cloudy atmosphere is envisaged over the inland states and the coastal cities of the south with prospects of morning thunderstorms over parts of Cross River and Akwa Ibom state, “ it said.
”The petition as presently constituted, is devoid of necessary particulars to support allegations of corrupt practices, violence and non-compliance with provisions of the electoral act.
The recent drop in the country’s crude production comes at a time when the Nigerian government postponed the June deadline for subsidy removal.
During Mr Rabiu’s tenure as pioneer president, the council achieved significant milestones in strengthening business ties between France and Nigeria, promoting mutual growth and prosperity.
The former US president was arraigned before Judge Juan Merchan.
The members were guided by their constitution.
“This is to inform all distinguished senators of the Federal Republic of Nigeria that the resumption of the Senate in plenary has been rescheduled from Tuesday, April 25 to Tuesday, May 2.
The first payment is due on January 15, 2027, and the last payment is due on July 15, 2051.
The witness said Taylor rewarded them at the end of the operation.
Mr Ologunagba commended the Supreme Court for its courage in upholding justice and reaffirming the saying that “the Judiciary is the last hope of the common man.
It takes courage to come forward to do that.”
President Muhammadu Buhari has ordered the Executive Vice Chairman (EVC) of the National Agency for Science and Engineering Infrastructure (NASENI), Professor Mohammed Sani Haruna, to immediately hand over his office to the next most senior officer in the establishment.
For instance, he said, the NNPC Limited is actively supporting the federal government towards the realization of key initiatives such as the Decade of Gas and the National Gas Expansion Programme (NGEP) which seeks to deepen natural gas utilization as an alternative transportation fuel, virtual gas supply to off-pipeline grid gas customers and gas utilization as feedstock for the development of gas-based industries.
Citing the maxim that justice must not only be done, but must be seen to be done, Atiku said, “Televising court proceedings is not alien to this Honourable Court, and will enhance public confidence.”
To avoid a situation of wanton damage and colossal losses, it said the present administration, on assuming office, inaugurated a ‘Regularization Committee on FAAN Encroached Lands and Property’.
The IPOB leader asked the apex court to set aside the stay of execution order on the grounds that the Appeal Court judges erred in law when they halted the execution of their own order which freed him.
The Lagos State House of Assembly has ordered the state government to withdraw the letters of appointment of officials who were not referred to the lawmakers for screening and confirmation of their appointments.
“To redress that situation, the assembly in collaboration with the executive arm of government, promptly reset the financial year to run from January to December.
For instance, the party lost 19 seats in Kano, and significant numbers in Gombe, Kaduna, Katsina, Osun and a few other places in the House of Representatives.
“Remittances reduce poverty even in households that do not receive them.
It’s a catastrophe,’’ she was quoted as saying by the ANSA news agency.
But, he clarified that “the only instance in which forfeiture of citizenship is allowed under the Constitution… is by holders of… citizenship by registration” and “citizenship by naturalisation.”
However, the report said on a year-on-year basis, this grew by 5.71 per cent from the figure reported in Q3 2021 which was 4.75 million.
As a Federal High Court judge for 12 years, he gave judgements that portrayed his leaning towards the uncompromising defence of the supremacy of the constitution and the rights it grants citizens, as well as his aversion for arbitrariness by public officers.
“Similarly, members of the National Assembly-elect (Senators and House of Representatives) will receive their certificates from 11am today.
He commended the TSN for supporting his cause to become the president of the 10th Senate, saying that the group’s work in the area of mobilisation support for his cause was commendable.
Senate has mandated its committee on Interior to urgently investigate the circumstances leading to the delay of issuance, renewal of Nigeria International Passport by the Nigerian Immigration Services.
At the resumed hearing on the matter, Mr Ozekhome informed the court that he had responded to the SSS’ notice of preliminary objection.
Buhari meets with Bawa, Buratai, two governors, others in Saudi Arabia
“A phone would be smashed, and the owner would not report to the police that is less than 50 metres away (from the scene)?,” Mr Akinosi asked.
You are not going to wait till the governors come down to Abuja.
In a video posted on the official Facebook page of the organisation, the WHO DG explained that the decision to end the PHEIC status was prompted by the decline in infections worldwide but emphasised that the disease remained contagious.
Mr Mahmoud, a SAN, said Mr Obi’s legal team declined to attend a meeting that was called to streamline issues around documents to be tendered before the court.
Mr Yakubu, in the suit, asked whether “the court did not become dominus litis of the respective sums of $9,773,200 and £74,000 belonging to” him when same was put in issue, and in evidence before the court in charge number: FHC/ABJ/CR/43/2017 between Federal Republic of Nigeria v. Engr Andrew Yakubu, and in respect of which judgment was delivered on the 31st of March, 2022.”
This is the right thing to do and I commend President Buhari and his wife for their statesmanly conduct.
Over 40,000 people die annually in road accidents in Nigeria – FRSC
“In this circumstance, we will be asking for a short day,” he said.
The president, in another letter, also asked the upper legislative chamber to pass the Amended Financial Bill 2022 into law.
On a quarter-on-quarter basis, the NBS said the figure increased by 4.89 per cent.
He said that as the then deputy chairman and the highest-ranking official of the state executive, he was unanimously and legally endorsed as the state acting chairman of the party
The alleged offences, the prosecution says, are punishable under section 1(2) of the Terrorism (Prevention) Amendment) Act 2013.
“The PDP also alerts of recent intimidation, harassment, threats and vicious attacks by APC leaders against Nigerian youths and eminent Nigerian personalities for speaking out against APC’s planned moves to install a government that does not enjoy the mandate of the majority of Nigerians as expressed at the Polling Units.
This is because the time God would have stopped him, God allowed him.
12:31pm: INEC lawyer, Mr Mahmoud announces appearance.
NLC says the extension of years of service should go round, as it had been done in other sectors of the public service in the country.
The evacuees are expected to be airlifted to Nigeria in the coming hours by the Nigerian Air Force and Air Peace airline, who have been on standby for the operations.
On the issue of money paid to the government, the information commissioner said rent was supposed to be paid annually.
US prosecutors said Woodberry’s BEC schemes targeted a number of companies “which resulted in a fraudulent wire of approximately $188,191.50 to a bank account.”
The Presidential Election Petition Court (PEPC) has further adjourned pre-hearing in the petitions filed by Peter Obi and his Labour Party until Friday.
The FRSC spokesperson explained that the accident was caused by speeding, which led to the loss of control on the part of the Toyota car driver who rammed into the moving truck from the rear.
“There is a popular saying among the people of Ghana that if you educate a man, you have educated an individual, if you educate a woman, you have educated a nation.
Disputes relating to the conduct of an election or the declaration of its results are usually resolved at the election petition tribunal, a point that triggered the doubts raised by the judge about whether a regular court could hear the Adamawa matter.
The Sedition Act also made it a crime for American citizens to “print, utter, or publish…any false, scandalous, and malicious writing” about a government.
“We are committed to curbing corruption and other illicit acts in the service.
If this government is alive to its responsibilities this should not even be an issue that we will be dissipating energy on in this House,” he said.
Top Trending ‘When is’ Questions from January to March 2023
Commenting on her appointment, Mrs Akin-Olugbade expressed her gratitude to the bank’s President, Akinwumi Adesina, for the confidence and trust bestowed on her by the appointment.
On 12 January 2006, as a judge of the High Court of Oyo State, Ms Bolaji-Yusuf issued an order that invalidated the steps taken by then-acting Chief Judge of the state, Afolabi Adeniran, which led to the illegal removal of the then governor, Rashidi Ladoja.
Mr Ogan with 5.2 per cent votes could now wear the kingmaker hat; whichever candidate he supports would likely emerge the winner at the 28 May run-off.
It was triggered after a snapshot of the biodata page of a Guinean passport bearing Mr Tinubu’s picture and information surfaced on the Internet.
“He is my consensus candidate.
Djibouti is located some 1,200 kilometres south-east of Khartoum.
The pioneer President of the France-Nigeria Business Council, Abdul Samad Rabiu, has handed over the reins of the council after a successful two-year tenure to Herbert Wigwe, the Group Managing Director of Access Bank.
So they will soon know who is a religious bigot, a trial bigot.
Continuing, Mr Melaye said: “Somebody you had spent your money on.
He later defected to the APC.
While thanking the Commonwealth for sending a team to witness the conduct of the elections, he noted that the elections were generally free and fair.
“It was surprising to see the U.S. State Department congratulates Bola Tinubu on his victory while rage is brewing, especially among young people in Nigeria,” the novelist said, adding that “American intelligence surely cannot be so inept.
Meanwhile, a Federal High Court in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) has postponed the hearing of the suit filed by Mrs Dahiru, popularly called Binani, seeking the validation of her illegal declaration as winner of the 18 March and 15 April elections.
“This is to guarantee a peaceful and secure nation, with a budgetary provision of N285 million in 2022 budget and N360 million in 2023 budget,’’ he said.
“It would be a miracle for the federal government and state governments to pay salaries beyond June this year without resorting to massively printing of money or removing fuel subsidy.
And as we observe Easter this year, let us all imbibe the essential message of Christ’s ministry and truly begin to love our fellow Nigerians as we love ourselves.
The two-third of the 36 states is 24.
Oba Maduabuchi, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria, first announced appearance for the AA party.
“And to the question of what we know, I say that the last time I checked with our National Bureau of Statistics (admittedly a few years ago), there was a reliable household survey of about 35 million households in Nigeria; a household representing one family unit.
According to him, the Minister of Labour and Employment also received two approvals during the meeting.
He was member, Vice-President and then President of the World Bank Administrative Tribunal.
He added that electing the Kwara lawmaker will assure Nigerians that there is “a common and shared destiny, devoid of any divisive tendencies or any political consideration”.
At the 13th annual competition held on 21 April, Team Pathfinder from Nigeria’s LAUTECH won the Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Award.
Whatever the goalpost they bring, we will overrun it because I am suitably qualified—back to back– from all sides.
The effect of this, they said, was “with the effect of transferring the shares and assets of the company” two other firms – Reynolds Construction Co. Limited and Reynolds Construction Company Limited.
Muhammad Shehu (NNPP), member-elect, Fagge Federal Constituency, Kano State, described his victory as a long journey.
Mr Akinosi was elected to the House of Representatives on 25 February in Ogun State on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC).
The Eaglets believed they had equalised in the 10th minute when Charles Agada found the back of the net, but the goal was disallowed due to an offside call.
A former Deputy Governor of Nasarawa State, Onje Gye-Wado, who was abducted by gunmen on 7 April, has been released.
Tobi Soniyi – Chair, IPI Nigeria Advocacy Committee
Nor does she throw logical light on Atiku’s victories in states like Katsina, Kaduna, Jigawa, Yobe, Kebbi or Osun in the South-West in the presidential election.
Access Holdings, Wema, Vitafoam top stocks to watch this week
Mr Yousif added that he hopes that calm returns to his home country soon to enable rehabilitation and return of Nigerians to Sudan.
The Nigerian Association of Technologists in Engineering (NATE) has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to sign the bill seeking an end to the discrimination between Bachelor’s Degree and Higher National Diploma (HND) holders in the Nigerian civil service into law.
In 2018, the final in Ukraine was watched by over 380 million people from various countries.
The first report, considering the legal profession in England and Wales, was released in March 2022 with further reports on Uganda and Spain published in August and December 2022, respectively.
In Africa, the startup ecosystem has also been growing at a remarkable pace.
• Nasir Sani Zangon Daura – Katsina North
PREMIUM TIMES had reported how the board adjudged this year’s UTME as one of the best in recent times, citing how only about 6 per cent of candidates encountered hitches as of Wednesday.
It is, after all, one of those special seasons of convergence of two seasons of self-flagellation.
“There is an increased rate of a joint disability, making a lot of them dependent on other people because they are not receiving proper treatment,” s God bless you I said, and I said not, a funny she said.
Speaking further, the actor, who has been outspoken about voter apathy in Nigeria, also humorously questioned Mr Obi’s challenge of the presidential election process in court.
It was a Muslim/Muslim one.
Mr Biu stressed the need for the government to make available accessible, resilient, low and sustainable mobility systems to create livable cities that would fulfil the mobility needs of all.
Mr Akpabio after leaving the EFCC headquarters denied being detained but said he was summoned to respond to corruption allegations.
“We have ceded 100 ha to them and SAO Agro plans its expansion in phases and in ways that will cause them to harvest their crops.”
Imo senator-elect joins senate presidency race, writes APC leadership
This is one of the points at issue of this marathon trial.
Tolulope Akande-Sadipe, the chairperson of the House of Representatives Committee on Diaspora, has declared her intention to vie for deputy speaker of the House should APC zone the position to the South-west.
Then, the usual Nigerian malady began.
The IGP urges members of the public to cooperate with the Police as the digitalized CMR platform will provide motor vehicle information for robust and proactive actions in crime prevention, detection, investigation, prosecution, and efforts toward enhancing national security.
“Let me clear the issue of fundamental human rights that has been raised.
Why are they not stopping road transport workers who are going to Imo State?
Transcorp was the most active stock with 311.2 million of its shares worth N723.9 million traded in 483 deals.
“Note that your actions today will shape tomorrow.
To reduce the risk of Lassa fever, the NCDC offers the following guidelines:
Particularly in the House of Representatives.
Mr Buhari says NYSC has provided opportunities for cross-cultural interactions and established formidable bridges for improved understanding.
Seun Kuti has been widely condemned for his action, with many Nigerians calling on the authorities to prosecute him as a deterent to other people who have no respect for security operatives and other enforcers doing their jobs as stipulated by the law.
“We have had to change staff here and there so that we can bring forward a robust and very strong monitoring offices.
“Thank you very much and we pray that God Almighty shall continue to guide you and members of your family as you continue with the journey, stepping aside.
“While the emergencies of Mpox and COVID-19 are over, the threat of resurgent waves remains for both.
“The court was informed of the judgment of the Court of Appeal quashing the charge in the Federal High Court, Lagos over lack of jurisdiction.
“She is this”.
When reminded that Mr Ohadoma’s family said he did not attack with a weapon, the former officer, who served in the State Criminal Investigation Department of police, replied, “It all depends on the way he collected the phone.”
He reported that the humanitarian response remains severely hampered, calling for an end to attacks against aid workers and looting of humanitarian facilities.
“That is shortcutting the organization.
The complainant who resides in Rigasa area of Kaduna told the court that she had been married to Falalu for four years during which he provided her with food for only two months.
In an ultimatum issued on Saturday, the association requested tangible steps on the “upward review” of the Consolidated Medical Salary Structure (CONMESS) and payment of all salary arrears owed its members from 2015.
The officers will be taken from Rivers to the force headquarters in Abuja, a police spokesperson says.
PREMIUM TIMES reported how gunmen killed two officials of the Consulate and two police officers after ambushing their convoy along Atani-Osamala Road in Ogbaru Local Local Government of the state.
177789 of thr hotel.
He said: “This is one of the best examinations we’ve had over a period of time.
“The entrepreneurial community in Israel, whether it belongs to civil society or business, is becoming increasingly involved in solving the environmental crisis; over 1,300 companies and start-ups are active in the field of climate innovation.
The supplementary polls were held in 2,660 polling units across 185 local governments in 24 states.
Mr Erojikwe recalled that Igbo Landing was the first black civil rights movement in human history in 1803 when 75 Igbos were captured by slave raiders in the Otuocha/Aguleri area of Anambra State.
The form did not disclose any cigarettes.”
Nigerian authorities have not achieved full accountability for any journalist deaths that CPJ has documented.
The statement said the convict fraudulently induced Mr Aji to deliver the money to him through his Mbuta Criterion Nigeria Limited Company account with GT Bank.
She again filed a petition for review of the BIA’s decision with the US Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, arguing that the BIA erred in applying the REAL ID Act’s credibility framework to the fresh review of her application for relief because it was filed prior to the passage of the Act.
Expected to join at the meeting are Kaduna State Governor and Deputy President of the DRC/Nigeria Business Council, Nasir El-Rufai, Aliko Dangote of the Dangote Group, and Stella Okoli of Emzor Paracetamol among others.
Nigeria’s electoral commission, INEC, declared Mr Tinubu winner of the 25 February presidential election.
Barely 9 million people voted for President-elect Tinubu to govern 220 million Nigerians.
A member of the panel of justices, Elfreda Daudu-Williams, who read the lead judgement, held that it was Mr Maina who failed to take advantage of the opportunity offered him to defend himself.
Liberia: Another defence witness claims Massaquoi’s innocence of war Crimes
The former CBN Governor, Lamido Sanusi, former Chief Executive Officer of Access Bank, Aigboje Aig-Imoukhuede, literary icon, Chimamanda Adichie, and renowned broadcaster, Kadaria Ahmed, also attended the event.
It has angered us and we are going to fight this to the last until all lands belonging to our school are returned.”
“She (Jane Nnamani) went to Enugu National Orthopedic Hospital Enugu to do surgery to remove lymphoma.
Mr Ahmed, who was the chairman of the occasion, said in Malaysia, the Philippines and some South American countries, politicians were tested before they were given power.
NiMet anticipated a sunny atmosphere on Wednesday with few patches of clouds over the northern region with prospects of thunderstorms over parts of Kebbi, Zamfara, Sokoto, Bauchi, Gombe, Kaduna, Taraba and Adamawa states later in the day.
I ran the party to the best of my ability as National Organising Secretary of this party that saw us to victory in 2015 and 2019, so I think we have paid our dues,” he said.
“The South-south has produced a president for six years and also had a Deputy Senate President in the outgoing administration.”
Mr Orji also informed the commissioner of police and the director of State Security Services that only certified members would be allowed access to the hallowed chamber.
“Now that Ondo state is getting ready for Port Ondo which we believe will come to the limelight in the shortest possible time, that expansion must come to the headquarters.
APC’s Mr Tinubu got 1.7 million (41 per cent) of the total votes.
11: 25am: Mr Tinubu’s lawyer, Wole Olanipekun (SAN) also agrees with the withdrawal of the petition.
“I stand here on behalf of the 34 strong elected members of the LP, believing this alliance shall attract evenly benefit to us in this assembly and conform with the LP ideology,” he said.
We’ve come to discover that some of the most abused process certifications are all these A-level certificates,” he said in a telephone conversation on Friday.
“He should also pay compensations where possible, offer amnesty and open avenues for peacebuilding through withdrawal and submission of arms by sundry armed groups.
In addition, it heard evidence from one Mr Crozier, HMRC officer, regarding the timeline in the run-up to raising the assessment and his decision-making process for doing so.
King Charles III and his wife Camila would be officially crowned on 6th May,
A statement issued by SDN and the full report, copies of which were exclusively obtained by PREMIUM TIMES ahead of their public presentation Tuesday (today) criticise what the organisation describes as “the current system of weak enforcement of standards and regulations in the oil and gas sector.”
Through the Ikeoha Foundation, a non-governmental organization founded by him and his wife, in 1997, he and his wife have rendered a lot of charitable activities, enhancing poor people’s access to quality education and healthcare and building their capacity to participate in mainstream social, political and economic activities of their communities.
“With the existence of the shelter, survivors will be more encouraged to report violence cases and be safe.
Nigeria to spend $1.2 million on buses to evacuate citizens from Sudan
“When people say they are going to court or going to tribunal, I just laugh because there is no power or force that can remove Tinubu from being the President of Nigeria.
This follows Saturday’s supplementary election held in the state.
He said CRISP will be launched on 22 May, at the banquet hall of the state house.
This is a constitutional matter and if we do not adhere, we would end up facing the wrath of the people.
He said the decision would undermine accountability journalism in Nigeria, adding that it would embolden powerful people in public institutions as well as big corporations to break the law.
He claimed that at no point in his campaign did he refer to the election as religious war.
The EU, some of whose key members are still nursing colonial hangovers, needs to diversify its energy suppliers and has African gas firmly in its sights.
“The opportunities are eminent, Delta is relatively safe and set for business,” he said.
“So, few individuals will not deny 250 million Nigerians from the joy of having something that they will go outside Nigeria to see.”
The petitioners are seeking the nullification of the election victory of Messrs Tinubu and Shettima in the 25 February presidential poll.
He said the company conducts independent market research and also works closely with NAFDAC and other regulatory agencies in the country to ensure the product is safe for consumption.
With less than 37 days left in office, the president recounted his leadership roles in the country for more than forty years.
The joint effort between the police, military, and vigilante groups in crime-fighting is paying off in Anambra, says an official.
Mukaila Sanusi, spokesperson of the Lagos State Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development, said in the latest incident that the developer ignored an instruction from the regulatory agency to halt construction.
Chimamandi’s letter titled “Nigeria’s Hollow Democracy” was not about the election or person of the President-Elect, Bola Ahmed Tinubu whose victory was freely and fairly unveiled despite dis-oriented opposition politicking and those of their supporters in Nigeria and their allies in the diaspora.
He gave indication that all the assets were duly declared to Code of Conduct Bureau (CCB), the statutory body empowered to receive public officers’ assets declaration forms.
“I was tutored in an Israeli firm in 1987 on a monthly salary of N650.
This is contained in a statement on Wednesday in Abuja, by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Intrerior, Shuaib Belgore.
However, not all the members of these parties are part of the coalition.
This, he said, represented about 3.5 per cent of all inmates and was in a bid to decongest Nigeria’s prison population.
“The entitlements syndrome, the sense of entitlement is too much in this country and as I said earlier, you obey the law you look odd, you apply the law, you look odd or you are a wicked man.
According to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), Mr Buhari stated this at the Nigerian Army Trooping and Presentation of Colours Parade 2023 on Thursday in Abuja.
President Muhammadu Buhari at the Nigerian Army Trooping and Presentation of Colours Parade 2023 [PHOTO: Presidency]“Let me use this medium to sincerely recommend the officers and men of the army, all members of the Armed Forces and other security agencies for their exceptional performance in various operations across the country.
An Abuja-based policy think tank, Agora Policy, said the incoming administration needs to undertake fast, coordinated macroeconomic policy reforms on fiscal, monetary and trade fronts to revamp the economy.
In a separate letter read by the Senate President, Mr Buhari also requested the senate to confirm the nomination of six federal commissioners for the Revenue Mobilisation Allocation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC).
Last year, the Foundation for Investigative Journalism spotlighted how internet fraudsters impersonated Nigerian banks on Twitter.
St. Thomas Aquinas, known as the angelic doctor of the Church, said: “He who is not angry when there is a just cause for anger is immoral because anger looks to the good of justice.
Others, according to him, are a national working organisation and a grassroots acceptance.
He said Section 108(3) is in conflict with Section 108(2a) and (b) of ACJA.
“This act they showed would never be forgotten as it is considered a great service to humanity.
The media connect with the people as collectives and individuals and therefore bear a lot of responsibility in helping to stabilise social imbalance.
It is usually conducted once in 15 to 20 years as desired by the country’s armed forces but the last time such a parade was conducted in Nigeria was in 2007 when 32 units/regiments were issued with new colours.
Also, the Returning Officer of the Kebbe/Tambuwal federal constituency for the 2023 Supplementary Election, Abubakar Muhammad, returned Abdussamad Dasuki as the winner of the election.
“The Petroleum Industry Act (PIA) remains our second biggest achievement in the energy sector.
The robbers reportedly invaded the market at 6:10 p.m., shooting to scare people away.
At his own briefing, Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika, said the cabinet approved N2.6 billion as a variation for the procurement of security and safety operations equipment for the Maiduguri International Airport.
He further corroborated the testimonies of previous defence witnesses the former RUF commander headed a five-man delegation to Liberia for a peace mission.
Also unrelated to the gas dispute, Nigeria claims that the companies owned by Cahill and Quinn paid money to individuals identified as “Prof,” “Uzo,” and “Dr.
Mr Iordye recalled that the outgoing government constituted the transition committee on 22 March with a mandate to “complete their assignment within three (3) weeks which means the report should have been ready by 15 April, 2023.”
“We refer to our earlier letter, dated January 25, 2023, with Reference no: APC/NHDQ/INEC/19/023/191 wherein we notified the commission of the mode of primary election for the conduct of the gubernatorial primary election in Kogi State.
The crucifixion: A scapegoat or a lamb of sacrifice?
But incorporated trustees as you would realise from the judgement of the court are not incorporated companies.
He obtained his Doctorate degree in Molecular Biology at the University of Greenwich, United Kingdom in 2014.
The Nigerian Jollof Queen, Hilda Baci, is attempting a Guinness World Record for the longest cook-a-thon (cooking marathon).
There has been an intense debate on social media platforms over Bola Tinubu, Nigeria’s president-elect's alleged citizenship of the Republic of Guinea in West Africa.
Various speakers took turns to express their appreciation to the First Lady for her steadfastness towards supporting the course of women and children in Nigeria.
Mr Tinubu while submitting his presidential nomination form to INEC in June 2022, chose Ibrahim Masari, a politician from President Muhammadu Buhari’s home state Katsina, as a “placeholder” for the substantive vice-presidential candidate who would later be Mr Shettima.
Chinese mining contractors have also been accused of paying pitiful wages to locals working in their fields and allegedly smuggling minerals out of the country illegally.
The EFCC had alleged in the charge that the defendants accepted cash payments above the threshold set by the Money Laundering Act, without going through a financial institution.
Eid-el-Fitr: Nigerian govt declares Friday, Monday public holidays
b. Mr. Aliu Akoshile, CEO/Editor-in-Chief, NatureNews 247
The Eid-ul-fitr festival marks the end of Muslim fasting month, Ramadan, the ninth month of the lunar calendar where Muslims abstain from food, drink and sexual pleasure from dawn to dusk.
Completing the survey takes a few clicks and less than 10 minutes.
In a Sunday meeting between the presidents of both countries in Saudi Arabia, Nigeria’s President Muhammadu Buhari says the ongoing fight is unwelcome and unfortunate.
When the motion was put to vote by the Deputy Speaker, Idris Wase, members voted in support of it.
With 26.5 per cent, the North-west had the highest proportion of votes cast in the presidential election.
The president’s request is contained in a letter addressed to the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, and read at plenary on Tuesday.
“It is at the discretion of the court, I do hold,” he said.
The only exception was in 2015 when Ike Ekweremadu of the PDP was elected deputy senate president following some working relationship with some APC senators.
It said only 40 per cent of corporate sector respondents monitor gender balance within senior roles.
UN spokesperson Stephane Dujarric told journalists at the UN headquarters on Wednesday that Mr Guterres would hold the meeting together with other relevant organisations, to discuss ways the international community could help end the violence and restore order inside Sudan.
Peafowl, which is not an endangered species, belongs to a group of birds called pheasant which is associated with the cultural heritage in Cross River and Akwa Ibom states.
“He has had a distinguished career in public service in Nigeria as Chief Executive of the National Primary Health Agency and later as Minister of State for Health from where he proceeded to join the World Bank and is now at Harvard University.
Other members of the committee include Mr Dickson, Uche Ekwunife, Abdullahi Yahaya, Saidu Alkali, Adetunbi Olubunmi and Sadik Sulaiman.
The lawmakers promised to work for the emergence of Mr Betara, who represents Biu/Bayo/Shani/Kwaya Kusar Federal Constituency of Borno State.
Let the students keep waiting,” he said.
Mr Evuti disclosed that intending pilgrims who paid through Abaji, Kwali and Gwagwalada Area Councils as well as those who registered through the Hajj Saving Scheme would be trained on April 29.
We have secured visas for the intending pilgrims and two flights to airlift them from Thursday,” Mr Labbo said.
Sudan: Why we’re spending $1.2 million on buses for evacuation of Nigerians – FG
Responding to a question about breaching the oath of secrecy as a public officer, she noted that she relied on the Freedom of information act and other legal instruments to ensure that this book is out to the public and to unveil the secrecy shrouded in governance.
The president made his feelings known in a statement by his media aide, Femi Adesina, on Tuesday in Abuja.
“We appeal to President Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR, to bring to book all those who played remote and immediate roles in killing, maiming and destroying the properties of the Igbos in Lagos State,” the group appealed.
“You must understand that we should not be looking for saints.
“In March 15, 2023, they wrote to me and asked me to pack out within two weeks, despite my presentation of papers and approvals from the state government,” he said.
Mr Balogun said: ”As of today being Sunday, this is where we are with the evacuation exercise.
He said the approval followed the Buhari administration’s compliance with National Human Rights Commission, (NHRC), judgement and payment of N135 million compensation to victims and family members of the Apo six killings.
He also thanked the DINA team for their “relentless efforts to deliver the application’s goals and objectives.”
The association described the state government’s action as “illegal,” saying the action of writing to the school management instead of the FME is a deliberate attempt to circumvent the law.
April 19, 2023.
He claimed that the petitioners refused to attend the meeting of the parties agreed on at the last sitting on 10 May.
He said the panel only said they had submitted a report of their investigation to the IGP for action.
Mr Keyamo also said his law firm was more financially profitable than his ministerial appointment.
A coalition of Northern groups had endorsed Akpabio for the Senate Presidency saying he was best suited for the position.
“Such behaviour is as condemnable as it is unacceptable.
The Police have paraded two security officials – naval personnel and the Nigerian Correctional Service official – for their alleged involvement in car snatching.
The ruling APC had after the 25 February election, emerged as the party with the majority in the 109-member Senate with its 57 elected senators.
Mrs Dabiri-Erewa said already, 13 buses carrying Nigerians have departed Sudan for the Egyptian border Aswan, from where the returnees would be airlifted back to Nigeria.
I am not sure we can afford it.
He also called on members of the association “to accord them the cooperation needed to deliver on their mandate.”
He said those who collected their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) in the affected polling units numbered 5,250.
For the state houses of assembly members-elect, certificates are to be presented at INEC state offices, it added.
The CBN urged members of the public to be guided accordingly and ignore any fake news circulating on social media.
“So, we will continue to carry out our responsibility to the best of ability while calling on the civil populace to support us,” he said.
Musikilu Mojeed – President, IPI Nigeria
We have ambitions, and we are from low-income families.
According to Forbes, their “World’s Billionaires list” is a snapshot of wealth using stock prices and exchange rates from 10 March, adding that some people become richer or poorer within days of publication.
Aviation Minister shuns Senate’s directive, vows to demolish offices in Lagos
“If nothing is done immediately, these terrorists will pose a serious security threat to many surrounding local government areas, including the state capital.
One cut-to-size AK-47 rifle, 190 rounds of live 7.62 mm ammunition, two AK-47 magazines, two cut-to-size double barrel guns, and one locally fabricated beretta pistol were recovered from the suspects during the operation, according to the police.
At the court hearing, many of his colleagues attended to show solidarity.
“Plot by few who, with over-bloated ambition, desperately sought to subvert our democracy, scuttle the electoral process, compromise the judiciary, subjugate the people and impose an unconstitutional regime in the polity.”
“Mrs Adenike G. Akanbi is secretary of the committee, which also has the special adviser on education, Tokunbo Wahab and Bimbo Onabanjo as members,” the statement reads.
It is accordingly refused, and the business of the day shall proceed.
These successes would not have happened without your support.
Besides announcing the government’s decision to appeal against the judgement, the presidency said the Buhari administration “respects the rule of law, and nothing will be done outside it to resolve the matter.”
The President-elect left the country on 21 March for Paris on a vacation after a hectic campaign and election season.
The Kano-based businessman had on 9 April, lost his wife at a medical centre in Saudi Arabia.
Mr Malami and his counterpart in the Ministry of Finance and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed, had repeatedly shunned the public hearing on the missing crude oil.
APC retained the governorship in south-east Ebonyi State while Peter Mbah’s victory ensured PDP retained Enugu.
He did not provide evidence to back the allegation.
People from the South are contesting for this same Speaker.
It urged the police authorities to stop the alleged intimidation, harassment and attacks against Mr Emeh, his family and friends.
But Mr Adejobi, a chief superintendent of police, did not respond to subsequent calls and text messages seeking comments on the whereabouts of Mr Asadu.
Mr Buhari will leave office as president on 29 May after completing his two terms as president.
“But we cannot foresee a situation that would warrant another extension after this.
“The pressure will be too much on our party and membership if we do not have a formidable force to withstand pressures from opposing parties who already have Kano governorship and four out of the six governors from the zone.
Some of the contenders, apart from Mr Akpabio, are Jibrin Barau (Kano), Abdulaziz Yari (Zamfara), Governor Dave Umahi (Ebonyi), Orji Uzor Kalu (Abia), Osita Izunaso (Imo) and Sani Musa (Niger).
NAFDAC reassures Nigerians on locally produced Indomie instant noodles
In a statement on Tuesday, the police spokesperson in the state, Bright Edafe said the officer suspected of killing Mr Ibe has been dismissed after the conclusion of the orderly room trial.
They were later re-arraigned before Justice Ibrahim Buba, following a re-assignment of the case.
Some gunmen have abducted a yet-to-be identified man in Nnobi, a community in Idemili South Local Government Area of Anambra State, south-east Nigeria.
Meanwhile, America, Russia, China, India, the United Kingdom, South Korea, Pakistan, Japan, France and Italy, are the top ten most powerful countries, globally, according to their military ranking.
Every day it comes with different shades.
The PDP spokesperson maintained that the president’s comment against the opposition parties indicated that he undermined the importance of democracy.
Several countries including the UK, Chad, the US, Saudi Arabia, Ukraine, and France amongst others have commenced the evacuation of their citizens from Sudan.
Tiwa may pass for the only Nigeria-based artiste on the lineup.
He also challenged the armed forces to continue to break new ground and remain at the forefront of mainstreaming, technological and other cutting-edge initiatives to facilitate the provision of a safe, secure and peaceful environment for Nigerians.
Yes, Obi received excited and enthusiastic receptions in the various church assemblies that he concentrated his campaign on in the run up to the election.
UTME, which is conducted by the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB), is the entrance examination for admission seekers into tertiary institutions in Nigeria including universities, polytechnics, monotechnics and colleges of education.
“They all confessed to the crime and they are currently helping the police with information on other syndicate members that dispossess innocent drivers of their trucks before bringing them to their criminal hideout at Azu Ogbunike,” Mr Ikenga stated.
Even at that, it is still Africa’s third largest country.
The Police Command in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), in collaboration with local security outfits, have rescued 58 kidnap victims from some identified kidnappers’ den in communities contiguous to the territory.
“Sudan can’t restore their affairs in the estimated month or years from this situation…
Mr Umakhihe explained that Nigeria is known to produce an average of 5.5 million metric tonnes per annum comprising 85 per cent poultry feeds and has the potential promise to grow to not less than 50 million metric tonnes per annum if the commercial ruminant and swine feeding sub-sectors are harnessed.
In the South-east, he polled 127,605 votes and 799,957 votes in the South-south.
Other great historic members include local and international figures like Alexander Graham Bell and Albert Einstein, Margaret Mead, Jonas Salk, Barbara McClintock, John F. Kennedy, Martin Luther King, Jr., Aaron Copland, Martha Graham, John Hope Franklin, Georgia O’Keeffe, E. O. Wilson, Madeleine Albright, and Colin Powell.
Mr Yabagi called for more appointments of women and youth in government as the most vibrant demographic groups in the country.
Abuja collapsed wall claims two lives, four rescued – FEMA
Mr Arase, therefore, said he would continue to take conscious steps to bring about the required peace, cordiality and harmony between the two critical institutions of government.
The Defence Headquarters (DHQ) has described the call for interim national government by some persons in the country as unfortunate and unconstitutional.
Holds primaries for Bayelsa, Kogi, Imo guber polls, sells forms for N13 million
Because of the crisis and several litigations, the APC in Akwa Ibom could not have a governorship candidate days to the 2023 election.
Mr Nansel, a deputy superintendent of police, said that Mr Buhari was arrested with his friend Zubairu Ali for allegedly snatching a motorcycle in Nasarawa Local Government Area (LGA) of the state.
“The combined impact of the flooding, cash shortages, and ongoing conflict in the region led to a significant spike in food prices between November and January,” it said.
In 2022, the Golden State Warriors faced off against the Boston Celtics for the NBA Finals.
There were allegations of the existence of stolen 48 million barrels of Nigerian crude in China said to have been valued at $2.4 billion.
Where did this hate come from?
Governor of Kano State, Abdullahi Ganduje, had announced that the inner caucus of the party resolved to zone the senate president to the South-south in favour of Mr Akpabio.
My appeal is to the government to grant all their demands so they can resume soon,” he said.
Mrs Ahmed added that the government was ready to go beyond cash transfer to cushion the effect the subsidy removal will have on Nigerians.
The police alleged that Mr Ayangbesan is a member of a notorious ritualist syndicate that killed a victim on 28 January in the state.
“Yes, President Taylor gave some money through the leadership of the RUF,” said Defence 7.
Reacting to the development, the Jigawa State Shari’ah Court Judges Association (JISSJA) commended the commission for their actions in the development of the judiciary in the state.
These are the legacies he will be leaving behind.
He added that the deployment of national commissioners and other staff from the headquarters during supplementary or off-cycle elections were a standard practice of the commission when considered necessary.
He said that the extension of years of service should go round, as it had been done in other sectors of the public service in the country.
We know how it ended.
Senegal, Burkina Faso, Morocco, Mali to represent Africa at U17 World Cup
“It was in 2002 and 2001,” said “H2,” whose name is withheld to protect him from retributions.
Read Mr Matawalle’s full statement below.
He said Mr Oyebanji was only showing respect by paying a visit to the former governor.
The agency advised the public to be cautious and stay indoors, especially during heavy rainfall, to avoid being struck by lightning.
Nigeria has declared its commitment to carry out the project per the provisions of the agreement.
Some of the questions for deliberation at the event will include: ‘Why is Nigeria’s economy performing below its vast potential?’ ‘How do power, politics, and decision-making affect this economic development challenge?’ ‘What can be done to position the Nigerian economy on a path of sustained growth, transformation and diversification?’
We need more respect.
The court’s assurances came against the backdrop of Atiku’s doubts about the impartiality of the court to determine his petition without influence.
In his goodwill message, the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Nutrition, Abimbola Adesanmi, said the federal government recognises nutrition as a crucial pillar in the development of a healthy and productive nation.
Mr Arase frowned at the effrontery of Seun Kuti to have slapped the policeman, insisting that Nigeria is not a Hobbesian state where might is right.
To help her friend, Donna introduces Boma to her ex-lover, Xavier (Kachi Nnochiri).
Some of the communities where clashes were reported are Gigane, Shan Yasu, Tungar Tudu and Sakamaru.
The 57-year-old Imo-born actor reportedly died on 7 May after battling an undisclosed ailment.
Although reports said two persons died in the chaos, the police said the only person shot is alive but receiving treatment at the hospital.
Mr Lawan said the consistent patriotic stance of the Nigerian workers had enhanced peace and industrial harmony and provided a conducive environment for economic growth and development.
He further stated that other vital information like “the amount they sent, dollar equivalent, email addresses of depositors, transaction identities”, were also disclosed.
The soldiers claimed before the Turku Court of Appeal of Finland in Monrovia on Wednesday that Gibril Massaquoi, who is being prosecuted for murder, rape, and other alleged human rights violations, was never called “Angel Gabriel,” as alleged by prosecutors.
Peter Obi, Spyro’s ‘Who is your guy?’, ‘How to check my polling unit’ were most searched in Q1 2023- Google
However, in this case, as I said earlier, we are not talking about the usage of inferior materials.
But there are calls from some quarters for a government of national unity, and this could be a strong case for the South-east.
Aside from the South-east, eight other candidates have also declared interest in the position.
He contended that his removal by vide letter Jan. 17, 2022 with reference number SGF.
Mr Doguwa will be representing the constituency for the fifth term and is believed to be eyeing the position of Speaker of the Parliament.
“I said Obi has every right to seek redress in court like Labour party but nobody has the right to call for insurrection or to threaten to say that if the president-elect is sworn-in, that would be the end of democracy.
Based on these concerns, the agency said it wrote to the Lagos State government in September 2022, for their cooperation in conducting the demolition exercise in the interest of aviation and communal safety and security.
Mr Fintiri won the supplementary election with 9,337 votes.
I thank you all.
“The presidential election has been conducted and a winner has been declared.
He also assured the workers in the aviation sector that all issues relating to their agitations on minimum wage would be taken care of by relevant government agencies and ministries.
Babatunde Afolabi, the Africa regional director of the Geneva headquartered Centre for Humanitarian Dialogue (HD) oozed so much excitement in 2019 over a book project he had superintended as the Nigeria director of his organisation.
"All Hands must be on deck to ensure that the problems are not allowed to escalate.
But reacting to the MOU, Mrs Onochie in a statement on Friday described the agreement as dubious and illegal, claiming that it was done without the knowledge of the commission’s board.
“By Paragraph 17 of the petition, the petitioners, on their own, stated that Alhaji Atiku Abubakar came second in the presidential election with 6,984,520 votes as against the petitioners who came third with 6,101,533 votes;
The presidency added that the agency ensured the conviction of more than 3,400 offenders.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the APC candidate had asked the court for a judicial review of the decision by INEC to reverse her earlier announcement as winner of the poll by the state’s Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), Hudu Yunusa-Ari.
“We have since filed relevant processes at the Enugu State High Court to set aside the consent judgment on this very pertinent and numerous other grounds,” Mr Agbo said.
With 39 of the 59 hospitals and clinics in Khartoum left incapable of serving patients according to the Sudanese Medical Committee, the death toll is expected to be far higher with many wounded unable to reach hospitals.
Mr Yahaya who was represented by his deputy, Manassah Jatau, said the day was to celebrate and also reflect on the numerous contributions of workers to the socio-economic development of the state.
The judge, Gladys Olotu, granted him bail in the sum of N10 million.
NAFDAC has said it will conduct tests on noodles produced in Nigeria to ensure that they do not contain ethylene oxide.
He urges the Osun State Governor, whose victory was recently validated by the Supreme Court, to place interest of the state and welfare of the people above all else, and seek God’s guidance to deliver on his mandate.
The results of the 2023 elections are also unparalleled for the National Assembly which, upon its inauguration, will have a strong minority caucus made up of different parties.
Titan Trust Bank, a subsidiary of the conglomerate TGI Group, backed by Dutch-Nigerian magnate Cornelius G. Vink, has 94.1 per cent ownership in Union Bank.
This means that the main carriageway, both bounds, from Berger (New Garage) and Sagamu Inter-change on Section 1 of the Project has been completed.
Ours is a labour of love to my country.
Mr Waive and Chinedu Ogah (APC, Ebonyi) are the two lawmakers that have signified interest in the position.
This was a significant factor in the facts here, given that one eight-year-old sibling was in the room when the offending occurred, and another was in a position to hear the victim’s distress.
“There is no panic about it any Airliner being allocated, the arrangement this year was that for any airliner that failed on its assigned task, another company will take over immediately and fill the gap by evacuating any stranded intending pilgrims.
At about 7:30 a.m. on Tuesday, the university’s students’ union led by its President, Ogunsanya Dotun, mobilised students to converge on the university gate, disrupting both human and vehicular movements in and outside the institution.
A holder of Standard Six and Teachers’ Grade II Certificates, the nonagenarian served as a teacher at Central Primary School, Mbutu, a community in Aboh Mbaise Local Government Area of the state.
11:19am: AA’s lawyer, Mr Maduabuchi informs court of his application seeking to withdraw his client’s petition challenging Mr Tinubu’s victory.
The defendants jointly called only one witness, Adepoju Adedotun, and tendered six exhibits in a bid to extricate themselves from the case.
The petitioner asked the court to order a fresh presidential election.
Mr Moro also requested that the Senate should observe one minute of silence in memory of those that lost their lives in the attacks.
At Amaike Mbieri, unit 011 Amankuta community school with 565 registered voters, election materials arrived at about past 8:00 a.m., but voting was delayed until about past 9:00 a.m. because party agents insisted on confirming the authenticity of the result sheets and other sensitive materials.
“Unfortunately, they were overpowered by the superior firepower of the Police, which led to one of them being neutralised and the arrest of two principal suspects,” Ms Onovwakpoyeya, a superintendent of police, said.
“Notwithstanding, the command will continue to fight against drug trafficking and illegal drug consumption in the state to a standstill for positive results,” he said.
The police in Abuja arrested the pastor, Uche Aigbe, after a video clip of him carrying a gun during a Sunday church service went viral on social media platforms.
He did not state the reason but PREMIUM had exclusively reported allegations of incompetence and mismanagement against Saratu Umar.
Several persons have been sentenced to death for murder across the country in the past one year.
The singer was also granted bail in the sum of one million Naira “with two responsible sureties, a three years tax payment receipt that is verifiable; one of the sureties must have a landed property within the court jurisdiction.
“Consequently, the Commission wishes to assure Nigerians that the challenges are not due to any intrusion or sabotage of our systems and that the IReV remains well-secured,” INEC spokesperson Festus Okoye said then.
The Osun FRSC spokesperson, Henry Benamaisai, could not be reached on phone Tuesday night for his reaction to the incident involving an officer of the agency.
You will appreciate the fact that, if nothing else, the level of awareness has increased in the last few months.
“We have to take all public utilities as if it is ours,” she said.
Lagos government says most of the buildings in police barracks in the state are no longer safe for habitation
so when you win primaries they tell you to step down for a more able person who is more financially resourceful.
“Thus, the signing of an MOU to the tune of $15 billion with such an organisation is not only suspect but dubious,” she said.
Following the arrival of the cargo at the NAHCO import shed of the MMIA, its movement out of the airport was closely monitored in a sting operation until the actual importer, Mr Chidiebere, was arrested in his house at Abraham Adesanya estate, Ajah, Lekki area of Lagos.
Interestingly, she doesn’t make it excessive, tuning down when necessary.
The IGP appreciated the citizens for their support and urged them to continue to cooperate with the police and other security agencies by providing prompt and actionable information to prevent crimes.
Meanwhile, with less than two weeks to Mr Tinubu’s inauguration, no date has been fixed for the hearing of the suit.
Besides, he contested the illegality of the suit by EFCC on the grounds that the case was in flagrant disobedience to an existing order of a State High Court.
The Senate also mandated its committee to investigate the contract awarded for the printing of Nigerian passport
The Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Usman Alkali (IGP) would later order an investigation into the “weighty allegations” against the officers.
However, the election that brought in Mr Tambuwal emerged through a rebellion because the PDP actually zoned the position to the South-west at the time.
At 310 Close, he ordered the demolition of the two-storey building because it was an illegal structure constructed without approval.
This was made known in a statement issued Wednesday by the Head, Obi-Datti Media, Diran Onifade.
Regrettably, that order is yet to be obeyed.
Or at least amending South Africa’s 2002 ICC legislation to try to legalise immunity for visiting heads of state.
The deceased was convicted of kidnapping and was under police escort when a gun was pulled close to his head in Prayagraj, also known as Allahabad, BBC reported.
“It is at no cost to the government but subscription will be determined at the end of the entire process; it is not yet determined,’’ he said
Named Disability Inclusive News App (DINA), an initiative of one of Nigeria’s leading online newspapers- TheCable, the application’s assistive features are, according to the newspaper, aimed at ensuring that “persons with visual impairment, auditory challenges, and some limb challenges get access to the news with ease.”
After his service as Nigeria’s chief law officer, Mr Ajibola moved to the International Court of Justice, World Court as the judge from 1991 to 1994.
More so, while the party claimed in its statement issued on Wednesday that Mr Obi was arrested over alleged impersonation, it failed to state the offences committed by the impersonator for which Mr Obi was “arrested”, “harassed” and eventually “detained” before he was released.
“Apart from dead voters there are millions of fictitious voters who do not exist anywhere on this planet earth but have their names on the INEC voters register,” he said.
The president reminded members of the council that they have been carefully chosen because of their expertise, experience, and dedication to serving the nation.
Nigeria’s Health Minister, Osagie Ehanire, said in the country, about 10 persons die every hour due to malaria or malaria-related issues.
The Papal States judiciary has been investigating the case since January.
“It is, therefore, on this note that we wish to call the attention of the world to the scheme being perpetrated by INEC to compromise the electoral wishes of the people of Adamawa State,” he said.
Low-skilled Nigerians in US boost earnings by 1,500% – Report
“President Buhari thanks the people of Osun for contributing immensely to the development of the nation, particularly through the State’s rich cultural heritage, the several historic sites and tourist attractions, including the Osun-Osogbo Sacred Grove, which is a UNESCO World Heritage Site.”
He also tasked them to ensure compliance with all standard operating procedures in the discharge of their responsibilities.
The governor of Ebonyi State, Dave Umahi, a senator-elect, from the region has withdrawn from the race.
Former Osun State governor, Gboyega Oyetola, says he has accepted the verdict of the Supreme Court which upheld the election of Ademola Adeleke of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as the state governor.
Represented by Emmanuel Kwaya, a director in the council, Mr Ibrahim said having an effective processing plant of agricultural products and initiating research-based storage would improve food security for the country.
In most cases, some agents and supporters were not allowed access to the polling units.
The governor said that an external seven-member committee had been set up with two weeks mandate to independently ascertain what had gone wrong.
In a short ruling, Justice Osiagor held that in line with the decision of the appellate court, all documentary evidence as well as exhibits tendered, be released to the prosecution.
They said that the failure of the complainant (NDLEA) to await the disciplinary action against them rendered the charge incompetent and deprived the court of jurisdiction to entertain the charge.
The governorship elections were declared inconclusive in Adamawa and Kebbi states and shifted to April 15 because the margin of victory was lower than the number of registered voters in areas where it was not possible to conduct elections on March 18, not because of grievances with the collation process.
Seun Kuti turns himself in over assault on police officer
But the REC, Mr Sinikiem has appealed for the cooperation of political parties in the state, assuring them that INEC was going to exercise its constitutional and lawful duties without bias.
• Ipinasagba Emmanuel Olajide – Ondo North
Like the other members of the panel, Mr Mohammed was called to bar after passing his bar examinations at the Lagos campus of the Nigerian Law School.
Giving grounds why the motion should be granted, Mrs Dahiru stated that after the collation of results, INEC declared her as the winner of the elections but the PDP and its candidate, Governor Fintiri, resorted to fighting and causing a public disturbance which led to the beating and manhandling of an INEC staff.
While commiserating with the parents of the deceased, staff and students, the university management admonished “the students to desist from taking laws into their hands and to report any criminal activities to the University authorities for immediate action.”
The vaccine showed a 77 per cent protective efficacy over 12 months in a phase 2b trial involving young West African children, following an initial three-dose course of injections.
When comparing the price changes from September 2022 to March 2023, Wuse II experienced a 4.2 per cent increase, while Nyanya saw a slightly higher increase of 5 per cent.
Ebonyi State is considered one of the strongholds of Mr Obi in the election because he (Obi) hails from the South-east region.
The company said a key consequence of the defamatory article came when a United Arab Emirates (UAE)-based company, Aras Group LLC, withdrew a loan facility it was about to issue to Hillcrest Agro-Allied Industries Limited.
We are in a new age of Nigerian democracy.
According to him, when public servants are cared for, the informal sector fares better.
“Nevertheless, on a year-on-year basis, this grew by 7.37 per cent from 4.77 million in Q4 2021,” the report said.
“We share the grief of the American Embassy, the Nigeria Police Force and our communities in Plateau and Benue and remain committed to fishing out the perpetrators of the attacks and bringing them to justice.
He noted that the breeds developed through painstaking research are disease-resistant and fast-growing.
Mr Omotosho said the court would not sit idle and watch a body imposing fine arbitrarily without recourse to the law.
“If I decided that I’m no more interested in doing that fight, that it should be a collective effort, I don’t think I’m wrong in doing that.”
When asked about the effect of the trial on his aspiration, Mr Doguwa said he is covered by the “principle of presumption of innocence until one is proven guilty”.
The spokesperson for the police in Ondo State, Olufunmilayo Odunlami-Omisanya, confirmed the incident to journalists.
“Any flight we fail to operate today due to this illegal occupation of our operations will lead to cancellations in most sunset airports.
“Eni conducts its activities according to the sector’s international environmental best practices, without any distinction on a country basis,” the spokesperson told Reuters.
Messrs Tinubu, Shettima and Abbas are all Muslims while Mr Akpabio is a Christian.
“My administration has made government-worker friendliness possible.
The board had ahead of the actual tests conducted a voluntary mock test for candidates on 30 March and 18 April.
Mr Ojo also admonished PWDs not to focus on politics at the national level only but to look at state and local government.
Their first two games will hold in Mendoza, in the far west of Argentina, against the Dominican Republic on 21 May and against Italy on 24 May, before they fly to La Plata to play Brazil on 27 May.
In a signal dated 26 April to Zonal and State Police Commands, Mr Baba said the barracks rehabilitation became necessary in view of the danger the structures posed to the officers and men.
Onyeke told the court that the charges against the defendant were simultaneously filed and ongoing before Justice Buba.
In fact, the election took Nigeria back to the days of First and Second republics where political thugs, where violence and thuggery characterised politics and election.
The magistrate, Olufunmilayo Odubayo, granted both defendants bail in the sum of N100,000 each with two reliable sureties who must be residents within the courts jurisdiction and have about 15 years working experience with the state government.
Between 2019 and 2022, the report said 51 Chinese nationals are known to have been kidnapped and three killed, with many more incidents likely to go unreported.
He said they should be critical and interrogate the information they get on social media before reporting them on their platforms.
How to become a heavy equipment operator?
The judge agreed that the Nigeria Broadcasting Code, being a subsidiary legislation that empowers an administrative body such as the NBC to enforce its provisions, cannot confer judicial powers on the commission to impose criminal sanctions or penalties such as fines.
The firing was widely seen as politically motivated and a court later ruled it illegal.
President Buhari’s attempt to obtain approval for a loan that had already been spent caused uproar in the Senate as lawmakers accused him of violating the constitution.
The committee also found Mr Goje guilty of mingling with opposition parties and their candidates with the intent to undermine the success of the APC in Gombe State and Nigeria in general.
Residents told journalists that at least, 30 people lost their lives, in the incident.
Otedola offloads 2.8 million Geregu Power shares
The spokesperson of the FRSC in Ogun, Florence Okpe, told journalists on Wednesday that nine vehicles were involved in the accident.
Mr Namadi, who is the incumbent deputy governor of the state, said his administration will not abandon any projects initiated by Mr Badaru’s administration.
According to Investopedia, a living wage refers to a theoretical income level that allows individuals or families to afford adequate shelter, food, and other necessities.
The police spokesperson said Ms Ani confessed that she has been involved in child trafficking since 2017 and that she had led police operatives to Abuja where one of their victims was rescued.
“ Disaster risk managers, agencies and individuals should be proactive, to avert loss of lives and property during rainy season, “ it said.
Nigeria has been slotted in Group D for this year’s championship and will play the Dominican Republic, Italy and Brazil in that order in the group phase.
Others include; Interim Joint Matriculation Board (IJMB), Joint Universities Preliminary Examination Board (JUPED), NABTEB Advanced National Business Certificate, NABTEB Advanced National Technical Certificate, NABTEB GCE-A’ Level (2015 – 2021), Higher Islamic Studies Certificate by NBAIS, International Baccalaureate and the National Registered Nurse/ Midwife certificates.
Mariam Onuoha is my friend, I will reach out to her.”
The petition also alleged that the election was invalid because of corrupt practices.
“The alumni association of this school are leaders of thought whose concerns for what is going on now is very grievous.
NBA president, Yakubu Maikyau, urged members to pray for his kidnapped predecessor, Okey Wali, who has now spent nine nights in kidnappers' captivity.
The retired colonel said a certain GOC had, in 2020, attempted to challenge his ownership of the apartment, arguing that the property belonged to the Nigerian government, but stopped after the matter was “addressed.”
He said: “The Magistrate affirms that the application for an independent review was served on both the State and the Counsel to the family and neither the family nor their Counsel filed any counter affidavit to oppose this motion for an independent reevaluation to unravel the truth.
According to him, Giwa 2 project initiative is in alliance with some of the main focus areas of the federal government in the areas of security, economic progression and technology development.
He said arrangements were already made to airlift the remaining Nigerians stranded in Sudan who are mainly male, adding that another batch of evacuees would arrive later on Saturday.
Mr Umahi, who was represented by the Secretary to the State Government, Kenneth Ugbala, expressed satisfaction over the standard and commitments by partners, and promised proper use of the centre.
Atiku said that such behaviour by INEC had negative consequences on the society.
He acted in over 60 movies including Olokiki Oru, The Midnight Sensation, Basira Badia, Olukoti, Idera, Wasila Coded Reloaded, Osun the Goddess, Queen Lateefat, Mafi Wonmi, Four Lions, Blackout, One Blood, Owowunmi, Porshe Babes and a host of others.
Nigerians have for too long been beaten by the rain and the sun of injustice.
Alleged Drug Deal: Court bars lawyers, journalists from attending Abba Kyari’s trial
The Nigerian Army on Thursday said it had rescued two additional girls from the Government Girls Secondary School, Chibok, nine years after their abduction by Boko Haram in 2014.
Days after the video surfaced, another where the woman recanted her earlier statement came up.
The decision was contained in a communique issued on Monday following a meeting of the faction of the opposition group at the Transcorp Hilton Hotel in Abuja.
He urged the management of FHA not to relent in delivering other projects at various stages of construction and development across the states.
Mr Malami also informed the committee that the matter is now subjudice because some persons attempted to use the recovery of the missing oil to commit fraud.
He said: “It should not be a ‘paddy-paddy’ thing.
Ardova went up by 8.5 per cent to N19.85.
Aig-Imoukhuede, El-Rufai, Soludo to speak at Agora, Carnegie event on repositioning Nigeria’s Economy
He attributed a great part of the youth participation in the general elections to the assent of ‘Not Too Young To Run’ Bill signed into law by his administration in 2018.
He then referred me to his friend from Oye, popularly known as Egbeji, in Isiwo.
According to him, Abia workers are experiencing untold hardship as a result of the unpaid salary arrears.
The controversial actions of the NBC have triggered a slew of legal actions in the last few years, some of which have been dismissed, while others are pending in court.
Over 10 members-elect have declared interest in the race and have commenced campaigns awaiting the decision of the leadership of the ruling party on zoning.
At the cusp of the first half, Inter player Henrikh Mhkitaryan was substituted for Marcelo Brozovic after the Armenian midfielder suffered an injury.
He recalled that the agency had recently been inundated by a series of complaints from victims of sextortion who had been blackmailed.
The government of the United Kingdom (UK) has announced restrictions on the “active” recruitment of health and social care workers from Nigeria by its public and private healthcare organisations.
The Dorothy Killam Fellowships (formerly the Killam Research Fellowships) provide support to scholars of exceptional ability by granting them time to pursue research projects of broad significance and widespread interest within the disciplines of the humanities, social sciences, natural sciences, health sciences, engineering or studies linking any of these disciplines.
“But by the time they (terrorists) came to the village, soldiers were already waiting for them because they had been informed of the situation.
He queried how much of the money budgeted for farmers in the country truly gets to the farmers.
They are eager to ensure that the new regime takes off smoothly and speedily and in a manner devoid of any encumbrance in the interest of our country.
The zone has eight local government areas.
He said he had assumed duty as the non-executive chairman of the company on 12 November 2021, and, in that capacity, subsequently attended the 23rd World Petroleum Congress at Houston, Texas in the United States.
King Charles III crowned at London’s Westminster Abbey
He therefore advised the doctors to avail themselves of the opportunity for social dialogue with their employer, rather than embark on a warning strike, which, he said, is unknown to the law.
“We got the information of these users who deposited the funds, showing their user identities, location, money deposited at different intervals, wallet addresses where these funds were sent to at different intervals”, he said.
Nigeria, with Africa’s largest gas reserve, and second-largest exporter in 2021, is expected to be a major source of the needed gas.
10th House: Group asks APC to zone Speakership to South-east
Speaking on Mr Ortom and the PDP’s loss at the recent polls, Mr Ikyur alleged that the federal government deployed the armed forces and money to manipulate the elections.
The army says Hauwa Maltha and Esther Marcus, were rescued on 21 April by troops of 114 Taskforce Battalion Bitta at Lagara, under the 21 armoured Brigade Bama during Operations.
I want to ask a question, and the person concerned must answer, or we go to court,” he said.
I am not worried about the lawsuit.
Although the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has yet to take a decision on the zoning, however, with the return of president-elect Bola Tinubu, the zoning issue is expected to be sorted out.
He also rejected the journalists’ defence of justification and qualified privilege.
We need to make the House of Representatives a place of, an arena of patriotic and intelligent discourse and enlightened, informed decision-making.”
The dissolution of the PCC is coming amid ongoing post-election litigation, where Atiku is asking the tribunal to cancel the 25th February election.
According to her, the Toyota Rav4 car went up in flames due to the impact of the collision and burnt some motorcycles.
The judge, consequently, adjourned the matter until 27 April for trial continuation after Ntui cross-examined the PW1.
The governor who promised to increase the fleet of electric vehicles in the state said that the move is part of the government’s effort to transform the state into a smart city.
Attorney-General Abubakar Malami had stated that the federal government will pay the company $496 million instead of the $5.258 billion demanded by the firm, to settle the dispute.
Mr Morka urged the LP to focus on resolving its internal crisis without dragging the APC into it.
In April, the party’s Acting National Publicity Secretary, Obiora Ifoh, called on all election petition tribunals to disregard letters by its suspended National Legal Adviser, Samuel Akingbade, withdrawing all the party’s petitions.
Supplementary Elections: INEC announces winner of Yobe South Senate seat
The story revolves around five friends secretly having affairs with one another.
My Lords, we are not asking for cost,” Mr Olanipenkun said, eliciting laughter from other lawyers observers in the packed courtroom.
He said the operatives discovered a shrine in the camp after the hoodlums fled.
According to the university’s Head of the Directorate of Information and Corporate Affairs, Bode Olofinmuagun, who spoke on the phone with a PREMIUM TIMES’ reporter, the decision became necessary to avoid the breakdown of law and order.
Adamawa Governorship: Controversy as ‘wrong’ INEC official declares Binani winner
The document also revealed that the facility agreement was signed by both parties, Nigerian government and IDA, on 16 August, 2022.
PT: What motivated you to institute the lawsuit against sections of the CAMA 2020?
Mr Adah, in his judgement, also quashed the indicting comments made by the trial judge concerning a former National Security Adviser, Sambo Dasuki, who is standing trial in a separate but related case of diverting billions of naira in arms funds.
He also allegedly settled for Tajudeen Abbas (North-west) and Ben Kalu (South-east) as speaker and deputy speaker respectively.
Ex-deputy governor blames Akpabio for Akwa Ibom APC crisis
The Nigerian government can no longer afford to pay lip service and must act to demonstrate its commitment to the provision of clean energy and economic diversification away from oil and gas,” said Ms Ibok-Abasi.
The chairman said that the shanties which were built with wood, caught fire some weeks ago and led to the partial burning of a building across the fence where the shanties are located.
He equally asked God to grant the deceased a peaceful repose.
The plaintiff prayed the court to compel the National Assembly to expunge the offending sections of the CAMA.
“We have continued to punish NIS officer and men who try to assist people for a fee.
In the absence of such evidence, the allegation is not proved beyond reasonable doubt,” Mr Agim said.
Justice must be served accordingly irrespective of who is involved.
While commenting on the event, the Director, Army Public Relations, Onyema Nwachukwu, who was is anchor of the event, said that colours of several units in the army had either been damaged or worn out since 2007.
The Secretary of Oron Local Government Area, Victor Joe told PREMIUM TIMES that the suffering was too much.
But delivering judgement on the suit on 7 February 2023, the court held that the prosecution proved its case against the journalists.
Both petitioners had urged the court in their separate petitioners to either declare them the winner of the election or nullify the poll and order a fresh one.
The move ramps up Mr Elumelu’s combined stake in the group to 10.5 billion shares or 25.9 per cent.
The team is led by two students of the Department of Mechanical Engineering in LAUTECH- Taoheed Oyewo and Emmanuel Ayanwole.
Keyamo attacks Atiku over criticism of Blinken’s call to Tinubu
The Leadership newspaper reports that Binani asked the court for an order prohibiting the election umpire from taking any further steps towards the declaration of the winner of the election pending the determination of her application for judicial review.
Mr Adejobi said addressing the accommodation problem in the police force was key to the IGP.
In Zamfara, the APC suffered another defeat when incumbent Governor Bello Matawalle lost to Dauda Lawal, a former Executive Director of First Bank, who defected from the APC to the PDP in May 2022.
On the task concerning the election of presiding officers of the National Assembly, Mr Bagudu pledged that the governor would continue to discuss and work with the party and the lawmakers to arrive at the best decision in the interest of the country.
She said the COVID-19 pandemic, health emergencies, and worsening climate situations negatively impact the continent’s efforts to accelerate progress toward achieving Universal Health Coverage (UHC).
Mrs Oduenyi stated that the facility would give survivors of GBV, space to recuperate and be reintegrated into the society.
Over two thousand years later, the thought of it still seems irrational, absurd, fraudulent, nonsensical, unreasonable, grotesque and even scandalous.
I believe you will follow in the footsteps of the governors.
UNN to host international conference against slavery
The Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) has filed a contempt suit against the Federal Government and Abubakar Malami, Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice “for failing to recover over N40 billion double pay and life pensions from former governors who are serving as lawmakers and ministers.”
“The idea of the product does not arise but the idea of a fraudulent syndicate trying to extort money from the federal government is what we followed,” he said.
The runners-up of the contest have already submitted petitions to the courts protesting this declaration and, in this election of many firsts, there is palpable apprehension that an unexpected decision might be handed down.
With 11,055 Nigerian-trained doctors in the UK, Nigeria currently has the third-highest number of foreign doctors working in the UK, following India and Pakistan.
At the same time, discard ethnic, geographical, religious, or political bias that could hinder our collective efforts in this representation.
“It is a season that reminds us that the Almighty can turn an unpleasant situation around for good.
“Some policemen came to the hospital and took Anas’s (Mr Wada) statement.
Sixty-five suspects have so far been arrested over a clash between two rival cult groups in Uyo that has left at least four people dead, the police in Akwa Ibom State have said.
“This is without prejudice to the ongoing Election Petitions at various election petition tribunals in the country,” he said.
“The cases of abduction in our community are becoming alarming and we’re begging the government to come to our aid and stop this carnage,” Mr Okwuibe said.
One of my sons is a resident doctor, I will advise him to go to work and sign the attendance register,” he said.
He said the government also set up a committee to produce the minimum wage salary scale for civil servants.
Doctors’ Strike: Abuja, Lagos hospitals offer skeletal services
Two police officers who were part of the convoy were also killed.
Atiq Ahmed’s teenage son Asad and a few others were named as the main suspects in Umesh Pal’s murder case.
“I was very surprised (that) even in my family, there was a conspiracy against me.
The Ozalla Development Union expressed worry that such a man of “high pedigree” should be “murdered in such a cruel manner that depicted the public execution of the medieval era”.
The low yield mirrors the depressed valuation of a raft of stocks in the market, which holds great prospects for price appreciation, particularly for investors planning to take a long position.
The NBA Finals are a fun and exciting event that features some of the best basketball and a celebrity-filled atmosphere.
A voter and the President-General of Eziama Autonomous community, Maxwell Ozurumba, commended the large turnout of voters.
“ Disaster risk managers, agencies and individuals should be proactive to avert loss of lives and property during rainy season, “ it said.
“As politicians and beneficiaries of Nigeria’s democracy, we believe that the continued consolidation of Nigeria’s political maturity can only be sustained through Peace, Stability, Unity and Progress of the constituents that make up the entire country,” he said.
“I am a loyal party man; nobody has told me that any position has been zoned to anywhere as far as the 10th National Assembly is concerned.”
It allows users to use a picture, write a story headline and publish.
“May God grant him eternal rest and comfort all who mourn him,” he added.
The Labour Party presidential candidate, Peter Obi, has denied the treason allegation levelled against him by the federal government, a few days after a leaked audio where he described the 2023 presidential election as a ‘religious war.’
“The reality is that we have an opportunity to improve our intelligence sharing and capability in surveillance and reconnaissance is really important.
While these decisions are essential for its business, Mr Roslansky said the company’s employees will be leaving LinkedIn for new opportunities.
So far, this has not been actualised.
A video clip capturing the scene and earlier published by PREMIUM TIMES can be found here.
While Honourable Justice S.O.
which was earlier opposed by Mr Usman.
Villagers said the terrorists were escaping from a military onslaught in Zamfara.
Since 1999 when constitutional alteration exercise commenced, the present round is the second time that the National Assembly has presented Bills targeted at properly restoring its powers under the Constitution.
Speaking further Mr Wike recalled how Bukola Saraki, a former president of the Nigerian Senate brought Mr Melaye to him when the former Kogi senator first contested for governorship in 2019.
The coalition, which comprises lawmakers from the eight parties represented in the lower chamber, promises to work towards avoiding rebellion by members.
Ms Moeti said Malaria has been a stubborn public health enemy which is 6-20 times more likely to spread in mosquito-prone environments than the Omicron variant of  Sars-cov-2.
The fact that many African countries voted against or abstained from United Nations General Assembly resolutions condemning Russia’s aggression in Ukraine suggests that dismay at Mr Putin’s indictment may extend to other states on the continent.
The convict, who has no fixed address, had pleaded guilty to a count charge of constituting nuisance after injunction to discontinue.
The full details of Mr Oke’s letter is reproduced below.
Throughout the course of the three days, there were also a series of parallel events discussing key African challenges.
The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Saturday declared Ibrahim Bomai of All Progressives Congress (APC) as the senator-elect for Yobe South.
“The plaintiffs attacked INEC for not following its Manual and Regulations in the conduct of the election, and also complained of glitches, which is also the thrust of their petition.
“However, on considering the motion, I am of the opinion that the defendants should be put on notice,” the judge said.
He assured Nigerians that the new PSC chairman was determined to sanitise the system and had warned staff of the commission to live above board in the discharge of their responsibilities.
She avers that Nigerians went out to vote on the morning of February 25 with high hopes mainly because of the promise by the electoral umpire, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to upload results of the exercise online from polling units in real time to enhance transparency.
APC sets aside suspension of Gemade, six others
“The manifesto, I am presenting to you today articulates the internal reforms of the House of Representatives I intend to pursue as Speaker, as well as the policy priorities I intend to champion through the legislative process.
She also used the occasion to appreciate development partners, wives of governors and service chiefs for their support of the success of her Aisha Buhari Foundation.
It said the appellate court justices failed to determine the competence of Mr Kanu’s preliminary objection to the competence of the charges against him, thereby denying the government the “right to fair hearing.”
Revealing his encounter with Saint Obi, Sanusi Dantata said, “I remember meeting Obinna Nwafor (Saint Obi) on a flight to London in 1999.
He said that often it was because of where people live, their gender, their age or who they are people living in poverty, refugees and migrants, people with disabilities, ethnic minorities and other marginalised groups.
Regarding the issue of immediate payment of the MRTF to their members, he said it was appropriated in the 2023 budget but has not been released, as the 2022 budget was still running, adding that those in 2022 have all been paid.
Prof. Wahab Egbewole, SAN – CHAIRMAN
Umo Eno says he was “both a victim and beneficiary of bad and good press” during the 2023 election.
In a statement signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Kunle Somorin, the Ogun State governor, on his part, described the death of Mr Ajibola as a big loss to the judiciary.
He added that only the consultant doctors and nurses are attending to patients.
Mr Jibrin, a former member of the House, said the alliance will protect the collective interest of the group.
We are aware that an application was filed before the federal high court, it is an ex-parte application seeking judicial review,” Mr Damagum stated.
A former president of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Okey Wali, has been abducted, according to a statement by the association of lawyers on Tuesday.
From May 6, 1998, when war was provoked by military and police of the two countries who exchanged fire at their disputed border, war raged for two years and came with economic tension, decrease in growth and political upheaval.
HEDA charged political parties to rigorously vet all aspirants before allowing them to contest for positions, ensuring only individuals with a clean record and demonstrated commitment to public service are given clearance to vie for offices in the forthcoming Assembly.
A senior forestry official from the Republic of the Congo told the ENACT project that elephant and pangolin were the most poached species in the country.
Mr Yahaya stated this in Gombe on Monday while delivering a speech at the 2023 International Workers’ Day commemoration in the state.
The Election Petition Tribunal in Oyo State has received two petitions in respect of the governorship poll and four for the House of Assembly elections.
“We should also sustain virtues of self-discipline, sacrifice and compassion to fellow Nigerians, irrespective of religion, tribe or race.”
Rivers traditional ruler appointed chancellor of LAUTECH
Lawmakers ‘forfeited’ constituency project funds for Ebonyi airport – Umahi
Domiciled with Coinbase, a Virtual Assets Service Provider (VASP) and thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 22(3)(b) Cyber Crimes (Prohibition, Prevention) Act, 2012 and Punishable under the same Act.”
The NPHCDA boss said the government is introducing Community-based Health Research, Innovative-training and Services Programme (CRISP) to address the challenge.
Giving the details of the evacuation operations, Mr Gwarzo stated that though Nigeria responded immediately to the situation by using a multi-sectoral approach involving his ministry, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and NiDCOM, the plans faced some initial challenges.
“If he is sure the people voted for APC and he won the election, why is he running around pleading with everyone to help beg Peter Obi to accept the result?”(NAN)
In a statement on Tuesday, Mr Kalu, who represents Bende Federal Constituency of Abia State, said he accepted the decision of the party because it is supreme.
This story was produced in collaboration with New Narratives as part of its West Africa Justice Reporting Project.
2023 UTME: JAMB urges candidates to print slips, gives deadline
“On Conditions of Service in some of the Agencies, it is a work in progress.
Mr Ngige of the PDP, who now serves as Nigeria’s Minister of Labour and Employment, was declared winner of the election, although he was later sacked by the Court of Appeal in Enugu, three years after.
Mr Okeke-Ogene also said the apex Igbo group has not accepted the emergence of Mr Tinubu as the country’s president-elect.
Before joining the service of the university, he worked at the Ondo State Ministry of Education, and Nigerian Law School, Abuja, where he rose from the post of an Administrative Officer I to a Senior Administrative Officer.
Ms Oduyebo said it is important to adopt the Antimicrobial Stewardship (AMS) programme as a means to fight resistance and protect global health.
He expressed disappointment with the situation, noting that it is unfortunate “a great man” and “a great leader” like Ekweremadu will be going through such an ordeal.
Police begin trial of APGA chair for alleged forgery of Supreme Court judgement
Mr Shehu said that the FCT also got quite a number of approvals including contract for the full scope development of the Shehu Shagari Way for N91 billion.
The PDP national chairman also encouraged the leadership of the electoral commission to hand over the Resident Electoral Commissioner of INEC in the state, Hudu Ari, to the police for investigation and prosecution.
“While the deceased was struggling with the bank’s staff, one of them pushed her, and she fell and was unconscious.
“Since 2002, he was in the care of the UN,” said Defence 7.
He bemoaned the attitude of some officers who detest wearing the uniform, adding that they “will need to intensify our efforts in standardising the police.”
With the completion of the elections, the APC has emerged as the majority party in the Senate with 59 members-elect.
Don’t take my economic potential away, my economical entitlements.
She claimed the agreement was done without the knowledge of the board.
Mr Ogundare said the police traced the suspect to Kogi State where he was arrested.
“Preliminary investigation following the questioning of the suspects revealed that the Indian hemp was destined for Kaduna State,” he said.
President Conde was going for reelection, for the second term, in office then in 2015.
The price-to-earnings (PE) of the lender is presently 2.6x, while its earnings per share (EPS) is N1.56.
He said that the gesture came at the heels of the establishment of the Federal Polytechnic Orogun in Ughelli North LGA of the state, both for the good of the people.
Atiku's legal team wrote the CCB over the corruption allegation after the agency signalled its plan to commence investigations by inviting Mr Keyamo for an interview.
“This will help in building on the party’s presence in the zone, especially in Kano and other states where the opposition parties have occupied,” Mr Danbazau said.
The firm’s PE ratio was 4.5x as of the end of the last trading session, while its EPS is N0.40.
He said that “the evidence was admissible on the basis that it was capable of establishing that the defendant (Mr RK) had the propensity for which the prosecution contended, namely to force himself sexually upon his daughter, which in turn was relevant to the central question in the case, which was whether he raped his daughter in this country (UK).”
Atiku attended the ongoing pre-hearing sessions of the petitions in company with Dino Melaye, Kogi State PDP governorship candidate, and other party stalwarts.
The NGO added that this amounted to a violation of Articles 9 and 19 of the African Charter on Human and Peoples Rights (ACHPR) and Article 19 of the International Convention on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR).
“To retain our relevance in the zone, push ahead to gain more grounds, as well as consolidate on our electoral performance, the zone, more than any other should have the senate president,” the group said.
Since then, you will notice that agitation for a wholesale constitutional amendment or for the convocation of a Constituent Assembly to amend the Constitution is calming down.
Speaking further on aviation fuel during a panel session, Peter Dia, a representative of the Oil Marketers Association, said the rising cost of Jet A fuel is triggered by the high exchange rate of the dollars and importation charges.
But in the suit number FHC/L/CS/616/2023 filed last week at the Federal High Court, Lagos, the plaintiffs are asking the court to determine “whether the NBC code used to impose a fine of N5m on Channels TV and the threat of ‘higher sanctions’ is not in inconsistent and incompatible with access to information and media freedom.”
“To achieve this vision, we work with a wide range of National and International stakeholders to speed up transformation and repositioning of our agriculture and indeed livestock production, to meet contemporary aspirations of wholesomeness and commercialization for increased farmer output and National income as well as the wellbeing of our people.”
Mr Buhari gave his unalloyed blessings to the APC candidate, while advising the party in Kogi to embark on issue-based election campaign so as to ensure the party retains the state in the coming elections.
He also said that he was “surprised” to see, in a 2005 company spreadsheet, that he had paid 32.3 million Nigerian naira — worth about $250,000 at the time — in cash to an unnamed minister of police affairs.
The accident occurred when a fully loaded commercial bus coming from Lagos Island and heading to the Ojodu Berger area of the state collided with the BRT bus.
The police spokesperson in Rivers, Grace Iringe-Koko, in a statement on Monday said the incident happened at Elibrada junction, Emohua.
“We know that this strike is going to hit hard on our members.
“But for now, as I am still in this studio, the position of the South-east caucus is that we are going to contest for the office of the Senate president of Nigeria.
Everywhere you turn today, Nigerians look forlorn, disconsolate, lugubrious, and despondent.
These violations include arrests, physical attacks, denial of access, threats, equipment damage, equipment seizure, lawsuits and high-handedness and arbitrariness by some agencies of government.
“The NAF C-130H is scheduled to leave Abuja tomorrow, 28th April, 2023 to commence the airlifting of the evacuees,” NEMA added.
The R21/Matrix-M vaccine is said to target the plasmodium ‘sporozoite’, which is the first form of the malaria parasite entering the human body.
Following the government’s appeal against the trial court’s sentence, the Criminal Division of the Court of Appeal of England and Wales in London raised the punishment to three years jail term.
Border porosity, weak law enforcement and corruption on the supply side enable this growing crime in Central Africa.
The key components of the aviation sector roadmap consist of concession of four airports and establishment of a national carrier, Nigeria Air.
Osinbajo, adjourned the case till 28 April for trial after granting the defendant bail in the sum of N100,000, with one surety in like sum.
“We shall work in harmony, mutually and cordiality with all other geo- political zones for the good of Nigeria but not to be compromised for any reason whatsoever.”
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Sudan on Sunday condemned in strong terms the attack on worshipers by the rebel Rapid Support Forces (RSF), saying it grossly violated human rights and international law.
SC/CV/686/2021 set out on the face of the Judgment delivered by the (apex) Court on 14th October 2021 is to be corrected and replaced with Appeal No.
The former judge of the International Court of Justice, Hague, Netherlands, Bola Ajibola, is dead.
His closest rival, Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), scored 6,984,520 votes to emerge second in the election.
Mr Mulombo said malaria intervention like any other health intervention should not be seen as a burden for the government or partners but as an enabling factor for social economic development.
Indications emerged on Friday that the president-elect has also endorsed Godswill Akpabio from Akwa-Ibom, South-south, and Barau Jibrin from Kano State, North-west, as senate president and deputy senate president respectively.
“Working with government and community stakeholders, we have supported capacity development in several Niger Delta-owned businesses.
The parties are the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Labour Party (LP), All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), Social Democratic Party (SDP) Youth Progressive Party (YPP), and New Nigerian People’s Party (NNPP).
He also disclosed that the caucus was projecting Sani Musa (APC-Niger) for the position of deputy resident of the 10th Senate.
The party said the petition and the identified paragraphs were in breach of the mandatory provisions of Paragraph 4(1)(D) of the 1st Schedule to the Electoral Act, 2022.
“This will go a long way in speeding up the process and avoiding unnecessary delays with documentation and clearance upon arrival at Aswan, Egypt,” it added.
The petitioner, who urged the Presidential Election Petition Court in Abuja to either declare him the winner of the election or nullify it and order a rerun, also secured only 15.5 per cent of the votes in Abuja.
Mr Muoghalu said the loss of soil could be checked by the enactment of strong environmental law, reforestation, increased awareness and community participation and implementation of a disaster management cycle by the state emergency management agency.
The chairman said funds, suspected to be looted, are being moved through the OAGF, a development he described as “unconstitutional”.
Consequently, the House mandated the committee to investigate all crude oil exports and sales by Nigeria from 2014 to date, with regards to quantity, insurance, revenue generated, remittances into the Federation Account or other accounts as well as utilisation of the revenue for the period under review.
The elders disclosed this in a communique issued at the end of its virtual meeting on Wednesday, which was attended by members from Nigeria, the United States of America, the United Kingdom, Italy and other parts of the world.
At the meeting which held at the corporate headquarters of the commission in.
While it accounted for 56 per cent (N39.5 billion) of revenue and 56 per cent (N1.2 billion) of PBT in 2021, it contributed 51.9 per cent (N45.9 billion) of revenue and 51.9 per cent (N4.1 billion) of PBT in 2022.
You have shown loyalty we will invite you, in due course,” he said.
Rather than explain why he was giving a contradictory statement to what the electoral commission told Nigerians, Mr Mohammed continued his attack on the media for accurately reporting him
The party’s spokeperson in the state, Oladele Olabamiji, said the Supreme Court had upheld the wish and mandate of the electorate.
The court adjourned to 26 April, the day the collation of the results of the supplementary election resumed and Mr Fintiri declared winner.
All I know is that we are going to win,” he said.
“Nigeria is diagnosing only about five per cent of people that are supposed to be diagnosed and receiving care,” he said.
Nigeria’s manufacturing sector shrank for the second month in a row in March as cash scarcity in Africa’s biggest economy hampered private sector activity.
The public is advised to take necessary caution.
Mr Malami also declined to provide the committee with the case file on the prosecution of the suspects in the fraud case.
Not giving up, Ms Brooks appealed the decision to the BIA which affirmed the immigration judges’ decision in 2022.
In his farewell address, Mr Rabiu expressed gratitude to the Council members, President Macron, and other stakeholders for their unwavering support during his tenure.
His arrest after being declared wanted by the police came days after three high-ranking police officers serving in Anambra State were indicted for various criminal activities in the state.
The Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, consequently extended the time frame by one week and urged the committee members to ensure they carry out proper investigation on the allegations.
However, the school through its lawyer, Olukayode Enitan, told the coroner that the request for an independent autopsy was made because its representative pathologist during the one conducted earlier only attended as an observer and “did not carry out any tests on the samples.”
The doctors in a communique issued at the end of their National Executive Council (NEC) meeting on Saturday and signed by their President, Emeka Innocent, said the government is yet to meet their demands.
Private universities in Nigeria now 148 as government approves additional 37
Mr Kaoje, whose younger sister, Farida Kaoje, was not among those released, said they would continue to press Mr Gide until the remaining girls are all released.
She said the dossier was subjected to independent reviews by NAFDAC’s Vaccine Advisory Committee according to WHO standards, and other guidelines.
Their last qualification was in 2017 in India when they finished fourth.
The event will feature expert speakers and panelists discussing the importance of Afrocentric architecture in developing new landscapes for Nigeria and the role Nigeria can play in shaping the future of Africa.
“The patient referred to in the report is a 38-year-old female who was delivered of a baby 15 days ago in Akure, Ondo State.
In compliance with the enforcement order, AMCON on Thursday, 6 April, took effective possession of Glano Nigeria Limited property located at No.
It asked aggrieved politicians to explore constitutional means to address grievances, especially those arising from the recent elections.
The sweepers say some of them earn as low as N5,000 a month.
Governors enjoy immunity from prosecution and the EFCC is believed to be ready to intensify the investigation of outgoing governors, including Mr Matawalle, with a view to prosecution.
The anti-corruption organization and non-partisan human rights and development league therefore called on the commission to investigate and prosecute everyone involved in this act of corrupt practices.
The PDP spokesperson challenged leadership of the ruling APC to speak on the allegations if they are not guilty.
The victory sees the Eaglets secure six points (two wins and a loss) and thus qualify for the quarter-final.
The police said the lawmaker was arrested and charged alongside other accomplices.
Perhaps, in the next couples of hours, the result will be declared.”
He was sworn into office on 29 May 2015.
“My becoming Senate President on the day of inauguration lies with a decision that will be made by 108 other senators that day and nothing else.”
She congratulated Mr Buhari on his very successful eight years in office, saying he had done very well to hold the country together.
You have come here in a very comfortable secretariat and I am competing fairly, even above all my other contemporaries.
The president also sought the Senate’s approval for reimbursement by issuing promissory notes to Plateau and Borno, the sums of N6.6 billion and N3.8 billion, respectively.
“I demand that the EFCC chair extend similar invitations to officers of the Presidency and members of the Federal Executive Council, which is the highest tier of government in the country,” he wrote.
They said the governor was only trying to increase the wage bill of the incoming administration.
Murphy Afolabi celebrated his 49th birthday few days ago.This life is not worth a thing walahi.You can take all measures to be healthy and still slip in the bathroom to your death when it is God's time.Heck, some even sleep and don't wake up again.May Allah forgive his sins…
”They (opposition) keep leaning on some international observers to justify their fraudulent claim that the election was rigged,” he said.
“And by this approval, the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice will domicile and gazette these changes that have been approved.
“Another contract that was approved for the National Population Commission was the contract for the development and implementation of mobile device management solution for the personal digital assistance devices to be used for the 2023 population census.
“It is the most trafficked side.
“He was a man who brought to bear his wealth of experience, capacity and strict sense of nation-building to our own state and the nation at large.
Since January, PREMIUM TIMES has tracked and reported several petitions by staff and directors against the NIPC boss.
Crisis is also rocking PDP at the national level with the suspension of its national chairman, Iyorchia Ayu, shortly after the 25 February and 18 March general elections.
He, his wife Beatrice and a Nigerian doctor, Obinna Obetta, were found guilty of conspiracy for organ trafficking by the Westminster Magistrate Court, an offence that contravenes the Modern Slavery Act.
A 24-year-old man has strangled his 44-year-old male friend to death in Enugu State, south-east Nigeria.
The writer can of course afford the luxury of pronouncing Nigeria’s democracy ‘hollow’ from the distance of her foreign abode all because her favoured candidate, Peter Obi, fell short in the election.
Mr Dogondaji called on the personnel to be thorough and professional in carrying out the national assignment.
A coalition of former members of the House of Representatives from the six geo-political zones of the country has endorsed Muktar Betara (APC, Borno) for the position of Speaker of the 10th House of Representatives.
While I pray for your tenure to be prosperous for our people and the State, I urge you to focus on delivery of good governance.
That leaves the spread between both rates at almost 60 per cent.
“It is on the strength of these reports that many nations, including the US and the UK, wasted no time in congratulating the victorious APC Presidential Candidate,” he said.
Thank you all very much.”
“There are simply no issues to reconcile between those two entities and myself.
“I think that moving on, it is very important for NEMA to have Rapid Response Squads with military formations in all parts of Nigeria and then in the diaspora with military attaches.
But in the 2023 elections, the South-east and South-south have members on the platform of the APC, and some are ranking members.
Both Bills will raise the abysmal standard and commence the cleansing of our process.
“I know that a lot more needs to be done to free up any obstacles that prevent people from renting or acquiring many empty houses that we see in our urban centres,” he said.
He also said that 700 officers across the southwest were expected for passing-out -parade in the state.
Ondo State governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, has condemned the zoning arrangement of the APC per the leadership of the forthcoming 10th National Assembly which will be inaugurated in June.
Speaking during his official declaration on Friday at the Transcorp Hotel in Abuja, Mr Wase stated the now popular Yoruba phrase “emi lokan,” which translates as “it is my turn”.
They were declared inconclusive or postponed during the 25 February and 18 March elections.
She sought an order of prohibition and certiorari preventing INEC and its agents from taking any further steps towards the declaration of the winner of the elections pending the determination of her application for judicial review.
But talking about the window, we are making every effort to ensure that we make use of this window to evaluate as many Nigerians as we possibly can.”
Trial will soon commence.
The Afenifere leader, who spoke through his chief security officer, Sunday Ogunkalu, appealed to the protesters to conduct themselves peacefully.
Mrs Odogu, on her part, argued that Mr Keyamo did not approach her agency, the ICPC, properly, which she said works discreetly.
The phase two is what the council approved today, they had earlier approved phase one which is minimal infrastructure and cloud activity,” the minister said.
“We now have the president-elect.
During the commemoration ceremonies, three minutes of silence should be observed for the fallen heroes who paid the ultimate price from 1967-1970 till date,” he stated.
Mr Adebutu polled 262, 383 votes in the election won by Governor Dapo Abiodun of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with 276, 298 votes.
February, March and now April.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Mr Yari had declared his intention to contest for the position of president of the 10th Senate.
He and the Labour Party who are co-petitioners are seeking to upturn Mr Tinubu’s victory as Nigeria’s president-elect.
She said at about 6:30 p.m. on 11 November, last year, a yet-to-identified young boy, who was Mr Asadu’s secondary school classmate, called him on the phone and asked him to meet him at a bus stop in the community.
Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State has said that giving the governorship ticket of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Kogi State to Dino Melaye is “dead on arrival” as, according to him, Mr Melaye does not have what it takes to be a governor.
Summits are being used to build relationships, primarily to further economic and military cooperation.
If you aggregate all of that, we deserve and demand a seat on the decision-making table, nothing less.
“I can never say religious war.
Business mogul, Arthur Eze, bought a copy of the book at N10 million.
It added that there is no evidence that the AA conducted a valid primary from which Mr Okanigbuan emerged as a candidate, noting that Mr Al-mustapha was the actual candidate of the AA, who was recognised by INEC.
In other words, the figures were tallied as they appeared on result sheets, even when there was evidence that such figures were tampered with.
In an exclusive interview with CNN, Donald Trump’s lawyer Jim Trusty described the case against his principal as a personal political persecution by Alvin Bragg.
This raises a question about whether the country’s revised approach to the international court might not inspire some of the 33 other African signatories of the ICC’s Rome Statute to follow suit.
President Buhari affirms that the senator, who represented Osun-West in the Upper Chamber of the National Assembly, solidified his base.
The agency advised village and district heads as well as religious leaders, especially those at community levels, to begin the preparations in order to mitigate the effect of the flood.
The upper chamber also called on the CBN to allocate $25 million to airlines operating in Nigeria at its fortnightly dollar auction.
A statement announcing the purchase said the procurement was facilitated by Jampur International FZE, a company from the United Arab Emirates, which is responsible for the provision of airport equipment required by the Federal Ministry of Aviation of Nigeria to improve the safety of civil aviation operations in that country.
This is a situation where the votes margin between the winner and the first runner up is less than the cancelled votes.
Fake Bills, Salary Slips, Receipts, and Invoices
Several lawyers had told PREMIUM TIMES that the robbery charge against Mr Ohadoma was unlikely to “fly” in court because of lack of evidence.
Admission seekers into Nigerian universities willing to obtain the Direct Entry forms of the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) have, within the week, besieged the Lagos office of the examination body, accusing it of subjecting them to difficulties and inconvenience.
Following Alaafin Adeyemi’s death, an intense competition ensued between the Agunloye princes, who registered their aspiration to mount the throne to the Oyo Mesi through the Baba Iyaji, the lead of ruling houses.
The little-known judge, who is currently on a posting to the Ibadan, Oyo State Division of the Court of Appeal, ranks lowest in terms of seniority on the court’s bench among the judges on the panel of the Presidential Election Petition Court.
The state has the highest number of National Assembly seats where rerun elections are being held.
He said she had encouraged the kids to fabricate allegations against him because she was upset with him over citizenship and her family’s entry into this country.
Police arrest officers caught on video brutalising motorcyclist
This is contained in a statement by the Corps Public Education Officer (CPEO), Bisi Kazeem, on Sunday in Abuja.
This prompted us to take her to the hospital,” Mrs Olusola narrated.
“The matter is already being investigated by the police, so we wouldn’t be able to discuss it.
Many atimes when the situation demands, NEC under your leadership has risen to the challenges of our national survival even beyond the scarce economic matters.
Quoting UNICEF, Mr Mohammed said malnutrition is the direct or underlying cause of 45 per cent of all deaths of under-five children.
The underwriter’s PE ratio at market close during the last trading session was 1.5x, while its EPS is N0.80.
Mr Lawan said this in his goodwill message to the Nigerian workers in Abuja.
It currently runs five research and teaching faculties with 28 undergraduate courses, according to its website.
When is the governorship election in Nigeria?
The council said upon the advice of the National Moon-Sighting Committee (NMSC), the Sultan enjoined the Nigerian Muslim Ummah to search for the crescent of Shawwal 1444 A.H. immediately after sunset on Thursday, 29th Ramadan 1444 A.H. which is equivalent to 20th April.
In this post-election period of heightened tension and disinformation, we see it fit to set the record straight.
Only the seven aforementioned states recorded more than one million votes in March 18 governorship elections.
The April 30 statement said authorities were responding to “extremist groups attempting to forcibly subvert the constitutional system in the Amhara region” following the April 27 murder of Girma Yeshitila, a top ruling party official in the state.
Mr Obahiagbon, a former lawmaker, said out of the 93, 729 voters, 83, 419 who were accredited, voted for candidates of their choice.
Speaking on his plan for the House, Mr Gagdi said ending “duplication of projects” in the budget is his major objective, if elected.
In 2016, Patoranking featured him on the track ‘Ayinde’ off his God over Everything’ album.
Mr Kawu’s motion was taken without debate, and consequently, the House resolved to set up an ad hoc committee to conduct the investigation.
Lagos lawmakers fault Sanwo-olu for not seeking legislative confirmation of appointments
On Wednesday, an attempt at a diplomatic evacuation with air force planes had been aborted.
“The allegation was made through one Rev Victor Yahaya, leader of the Youth Christian Association of Nigeria Zango Kataf Local Government Area.
The leaders including former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, former Governor of Anambra State and Presidential Candidate of the Labour Party in the 2023 general elections, Peter Obi; Lagos State Governor Babjide Sanwo-Olu, the Archbishop of Abuja Catholic Archdiocese, Ignatius Kaigama, and Senator Representing Lagos East Senatorial District, Tokunbo Abiru, among others, shared their messages of hope and prosperity in separate statements.
The PDP, which has 116 members-elect, appears to be divided on the speakership race.
Benjamin Hundeyin, the spokesperson of the police in the state, on Monday, explained that the officer and his team are members of the “tactical units recently reorganized by @LagosPoliceNG CP Idowu Owohunwa to tackle cultism headlong in Lagos State.”
He starred in over 60 movies.
AMR occurs when bacteria, viruses, fungi, and parasites change over time and no longer respond to medicines making infections harder to treat and increasing the risk of disease spread, severe illness, and death.
Ms Adiche supported the candidate of the Labour Party (LP), Peter Obi, who came third in the presidential election.
Today, I am announcing that we have taken steps to impose visa restrictions on specific individuals in Nigeria for undermining the democratic process during Nigeria’s 2023 elections cycle.”
In my part of the Southeast, Okigwe North, we delivered.
In the suit, Mr Kanu, a British-Nigerian citizen, wanted the court to compel the UK government to acknowledge and condemn his extraordinary rendition to Nigeria.
The day also coincides with World Health Workers Week which runs from 7 to 11 April with the theme “Investing in the Health Work Force”.
A copy of the judgment, which was delivered on Tuesday, was sighted on Friday by NAN.
The INEC Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in Adamawa State, Hudu Ari, has declared Aisha Dahiru, popularly called Binani, as the winner of the governorship election in the state.
Senator condemns illegal establishment, operation of Peace Corps
• Tony Nwoye Anambra North
He said those spreading the rumour were ignorant of his antecedent and being mischievous.
However, the aspirants are awaiting the decision of the party on the zoning of the offices of the senate president, deputy senate president, speaker and deputy speaker of the House.
On this special day, as your President-elect, I extend my hands of friendship to the Nigerian workers through the two central Labour unions – Nigeria Labour Congress and Trade Union Congress.
“For all these reasons, and seen in this light, the term that the Judge imposed was not only lenient but unduly so,” it said.
Expectedly, the PDP ticket was most successful in the northern zones, including flipping Sokoto and Yobe – states that had never voted for it before.
“The strengthening of the guarantee of freedom of expression is a precondition for the exercise of other human rights, as well as a precondition to the right to participation.”
African states must also develop tracking mechanisms to monitor progress on commitments made at summits.
She said UHC represents the aspiration that quality health services should be received by everyone when and where needed, without incurring financial hardships.
The spokesperson of the division, Jonah Unuakhalu, did not respond to calls and a text message seeking comments from him about the alleged invasion and ejection.
A dose which is 0.5ml is composed of R21 Malaria antigen 5µg and Matrix-M1 50µg as an adjuvant filled in a vial as a ready-to-use liquid formulation for intramuscular injection.”
“It seems to me strange to deflect from that important issue and talk about how someone is not in Nigeria, those are not the points, the points are what happened.
A group of the company’s workers, through their lawyers, wrote Minister of Interior Rauf Aregbesola, bringing some allegations against Roger Brown, the chief executive.
President Buhari withheld assent to Bill No.
IPOB, in August 2021, introduced the sit-at-home order every Monday across the South-east to pressure the Nigerian government to release its detained leader, Nnamdi Kanu, who is on trial at the Federal High Court, Abuja, for alleged terrorism.
The group called on the police to ensure that a report of the panel set up by the IGP to investigate the allegations against the three officers in the state was released promptly and those indicted properly prosecuted according to the law.
The EFCC counsel further prayed for an order directing the EFCC to publish the interim Order in a national newspaper to enable anyone interested in the properties sought to be forfeited to appear before the court to show cause, within 14 days , “why the final order of forfeiture of the said properties should not be made in favour of the Federal Government of Nigeria”.
Also, Matthew Pwajok, NAMA Director General, said the agency is looking at developing satellite communications, surveillance and navigation across major airports in the country but the facilities are capital intensive.
“There is a culture we have imbibed in public service when it is the MD or CEO’s everyone does a card as big and this gigantic cake appears.
The Director of the Technical Division at the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), Julitta Onabanjo, said the death of any woman or young girl during pregnancy or childbirth is a serious violation of their human rights.
The APM whose presidential candidate, Chichi Ojei, polled 25,961 votes, argued that Mr Tinubu was not properly sponsored by the APC by fielding Kashim Shettima as vice presidential candidate for the election.
The Federal Government on Thursday suspended the election official and directed the inspector general of police to commence an immediate investigation and prosecution if found liable.
The Presiding Officer, Abdulbaqi Abubakar, told NAN that Biomodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) had been working smoothly and voters complied with instructions.
Heineken majority-owns the company, holding about 54 per cent of the issued shares.
INEC argued that Atiku’s prayers to the court to be declared president are impossible.
Learn Africa makes this week’s selection for trading significantly below its intrinsic value.
They were received on the ground in Kinshasha by the President of the Council and former Director-General of the International Institute for Tropical Agriculture (IITA), Nteranya Sanginga, Nigerian businessman, Jimi Lawal, and representative of Oyo State governor, Debo Akande.
The party sought a declaration that by defecting from APC to PDP, a political party that did not win the governorship election in the state, Tambuwal had “resigned or was deemed to have resigned from the office of the Governor of Sokoto State with effect from from 1st August, 2018 until the end of the tenure on the 28th May, 2019.”
INEC data shows that Lagos, Kano, Kaduna, Katsina, and Rivers states had the highest number of registered voters ahead of the 2023 election; however, none of these states were among the top 5 states with the highest voter turnout.
About 672 million Africans, representing 48 per cent of the continent’s population, still lack access to the quality health care they need, WHO Regional Director for Africa, Matshidiso Moeti, has said.
Mr Wali, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), was kidnapped along East-West Road in Obio/Akpor Local Government Area of Rivers State on Monday.
What that means is that women will stop at nothing—we are making this as a demand that we have brought a lot to the table.
The ongoing presidential and parliamentary elections have seen an impressively high voter turnout despite the unpleasantries confronting the Turkish people including the recent earthquake that destroy
JAMB had at different times listed acceptable A-level results for this year’s DE registration, warning candidates against fraudulent practices.
“It happened in 2020 when my mum left home and since then my dad had been sexually abusing me.
The National Bureau of statistics should become the National Bureau of Data,” he said.
“But meanwhile, we are going to close this and divert traffic to alternative routes,” she said.
BON said that it is aware of all the efforts put in place by NBC for many years to achieve an analogue switch-off, but the desired result is still very far from the remarkable achievement.
Speakership: Wase, Betara, others visit Adamu, protest selection of Abbas
He argued that his sacking was “wrongful,” and amounted to “disruption and interruption” of the term of his office.
He was arraigned alongside his wife, Beatrice and a Nigerian doctor.
Last week, before the military power struggle erupted in Sudan, WEF warned that hundreds of thousands of refugees and internally-displaced people in Chad could face hunger because there was no funding for food assistance beyond this coming May.
The minister underscored the sacredness of life, stating that no election is worth the life of any Nigerian.
Ohanaeze's leadership usually emerges through an election.
But, at the resumption of the plenary on Tuesday, the chairman of the committee said none of those in connection with the allegations had been interviewed.
Roland Itoyah Otaru, SAN, PhD – CHAIRMAN
He added that this feat has also shown the administration’s commitment to planning and plan implementation since the assumption of office on 29 May 2015.
We did not find his evidence credible or reliable," the judge said.
As leaders of the Party in their respective States, there cannot be a greater disservice to them that a consensus was yet to be reached when the NWC hurriedly released a dangerous tool for the opposition in the guise of a zoning formula.
According to the prosecution, the carpenter committed the offence on 3 July 2020 at Gangare Hotel, Mile 12, Lagos, where he traced the ex-girlfriend and her new lover to.
So political parties didn’t loose election because of over confidence or complacency as proffered by Mr. President, APC in collaboration with the various government agencies simply rigged the election and rigged themselves into power.
Number 23 on the list of Justices of the Court of Appeal, he is the second most senior judge on the panel of the Presidential Election Petition Court.
Nigerian Government withdraws immigration lawsuit, says Seplat
Meanwhile, in his letter of appeal to HMRC dated 2 February 2021, Mr Fagbewesa had stated: “I phoned BA customer service and I explained to them the situation of what has happened to my bags.
National Social Safety Nets Coordinating Office (NASSCO)
You may need to involve your financial advisor before taking investment decisions.
“Recall that in January this year, the council approved a memo for the NNPC to invest N1.9 trillion on our roads.
Offenders, on conviction, face life imprisonment or a maximum of 14-year jail term, depending on the age of the offender and the type of violence committed.
“I urge our president-elect, who is a talent hunter, who is a democrat to support the party to zone the speakership to the North and in the same spirit of justice, equity and fairness, that was shown in the presidential election of 2023 let it be zoned to the North-central that has never produced the speaker from 1999 till date…” he said.
All in all, 13 buses have departed for Aswan border in Egypt where they will be received by the Nigerian Ambassador there and the Director General of the National emergency Management Agency (NEMA), Habib Ahmed, who is already there with some officials.”
Mr Izunaso, who is also in the race for the Senate Presidency, told journalists after the meeting that zoning the position to the South-east is only fair.
His words: “Thank you very much.
The new president-general was presented to Governor Hope Uzodinma of Imo State by a delegation of the Imo Elders Council led by its Chairman, Cletus Ilomuanya, at the New Executive Council Chambers Government House, Owerri on Wednesday, according to a report by the Nation newspaper.
He even tried to sway the governors’ resolve by suggesting to them that the budget of the NPA was bigger than most of their state budgets, so they shouldn’t bother about me.
“This election ended the days when membership of a particular political party conferred on an officeholder a virtually automatic guarantee of reelection.”
Lautaro Martinez’s 74th-minute strike on Tuesday ensured Inter completed a double over Milan with a 3-0 aggregate victory as they marched into the final which will be played in Istanbul later this month.
They are responding well to treatment.”
The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) in Cross River State has confirmed five people dead and 24 injured in a road accident in Ogoja Local Government Area of the state.
He noted that the ongoing plans for the construction of Benin Royal Museum at the instance of the Nigerian Government was on course.
We must accommodate him the best we can.
She was struggling to open her eyes.
It called on President Muhammadu Buhari to direct the CBN Governor, Godwin Emefiele to pay up the blocked funds to the affected airlines.
A former Governor of Ondo State, Olusegun Mimiko, has advised the incoming administration of President-elect Bola Tinubu to avoid the sharing formula of the outgoing President Muhammadu Buhari government.
Every member is a big baby, you have to treat the person with the same deserving attention and understanding.
Nigeria’s biggest lender by assets has now traded as many as 2.3 billion shares in the two weeks since 20 April, the day the corporation announced it would pay shareholders 50 per cent more in annual dividends for last year.
A JAMB official, Amina Egberoungbe, who was on hand at Lagooz School, told PREMIUM TIMES that “15 candidates did not sit for the first batch of the examination while other candidates arrived late.”
“Once we know what we are doing and communicating as elected leaders and loyal party men, we will conquer the challenge.”
He did not disclose the details of the meeting that was held behind closed doors, or efforts to secure Mr Wali’s release.
Morocco are qualifying for the World Cup for the second time in their history, having made their debut in 2013 when they reached the round of 16.
Then the app does the rest.
Mr Biu said it is necessary to check vehicles before plying the road so as to eradicate all incidences of mishap resulting from mechanical deficiencies in vehicles.
The 2023 Ibrahim Governance Weekend (IGW), hosted by the Mo Ibrahim Foundation, from the 28th to the 30th of April, gathered African leaders, politicians, thought leaders, private sector and civil society representatives to discuss the key role that the continent has the potential to and requires to play in a world confronted to multiplying, cumulative global challenges, be it climate change, pandemics, or conflicts.
Nigeria’s domestic gas infrastructure network has the capacity to transport about 6.9 Billion Standard Cubic Feet (BCF) of gas to support power generation and gas-based industries, the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited has said.
Ohanaeze’s new president Iwuanyanwu pledges to secure Nnamdi Kanu’s release
The Federal Executive Council (FEC) has approved the sum of N495 million for the installation of scanners in all the railway stations across the country.
Flood wreaked havoc after a downpour across Ogun State.
Raju Pal had defeated Ashraf in the 2004 assembly elections in Atiq Ahmed’s political stronghold.
“The governor said that beginning from today, all Special Assistants and Senior Special Assistants have been relieved of their appointments,” the statement added.
Mr Tinubu, who won Nigeria’s presidential election held in February, will be sworn in as president on 29 May to succeed Muhammadu Buhari.
I send you warmest greetings from Nigeria.
I like to pass through Wiesbaden in Germany, that is where I have friends, and that is where Julius Berger’s headquarters is.
“We urge the court to deny the defendant bail because he has failed to provide the court exceptional circumstances to grant him bail,” the prosecutor submitted.
Malami gave his remarks at a briefing to promote the Nigerian government’s human rights agenda, which was chaired by President Muhammadu Buhari.
“I am presenting this document today because I want to initiate a national conversation about what the proper function of parliament in our country ought to be.
The result for Obio/Akpor council area, as declared by INEC, portrayed Mr Tinubu as scoring 80, 239 votes, with Mr Obi garnering 3,829 votes.
PREMIUM TIMES is in court to bring you live updates of the sitting.
The trio of Gombe, Katsina, and Kebbi states each recorded a 39 per cent turnout while the duo of Bauchi and Zamfara states put up a 38 per cent turnout.
Nigerian university announces new appointment of top officials
Francis Waive, the lawmaker representing Ughelli North/Ughelli South/Udu Federal Constituency of Delta state, has declared interest to run for the position of deputy speaker of the House of Representatives
But none of the videos was real.
Burke, who is the nephew of deceased P&ID founder Quinn, said he did it in “very specific circumstances” where Nigerian authorities were seeking to freeze funds sent from Cahill to Taiga that, Burke said, were used to pay for medical expenses.
A state which does not complete its tenure as a result of the death or resignation of the incumbent president-general is permitted to nominate another to complete such tenure subject to ratification by the Imeobi Ohanaeze.
The PDP went into the election with a divided house.
“At least 22 states starting from Lagos State have reportedly passed life pensions laws for former governors and other ex-public officials.
• Ikra Aliyu Bilbis Zamfara Central
Mr Lalong said in his efforts to sanitise the state civil service, he set up a committee to screen workers where some top ranking civil servants were fished out for falsifying their ages and many ghost workers expunged from the state payroll.
Mr Doguwa, who represents Doguwa/Tundun Wada federal constituency of Kano State, announced his entry into the race in a letter of intent sent to members-elect on Sunday.
Mr Keyamo is in Washington with the Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare, and Ajuri Ngelale, an aide to President Muhammadu Buhari.
The anti-corruption group disclosed that it relied on the 2019 audited report by the Auditor General of the Federation (AGF), which states that 107,239,436.00 barrels of crude oil were lifted as domestic crude without any document or tracing, and also the 42.25 million barrels of crude oil that NEITI declared as missing in 2019.
Mr Ogunleye was editor and deputy managing director at PUNCH Newspapers.
He said he takes care of the children and his wife.
The Chairman, Board of Directors of the NSIA, Farouk Gumel, and the Managing Director/CEO, Aminu Umar-Sadiq, made presentations to the council.
The unit also arrested 13 suspected smugglers during the period.
Yemi Osinbajo, now the vice president of Nigeria, was one of Mr Ajibioa’s special assistants.
Mrs Dahiru, on Monday, approached the court seeking court to restrain the commission from voiding the illegal declaration that announced her as governor-elect.
The party said it decided on the zoning arrangement after consultations with Mr Tinubu who will be inaugurated as president on 29 May.
Hoodlums raze police facility in Ebonyi
“The petitioner does not fall under the category of persons that can challenge the internal working operation of the 2nd respondent (APC) regarding the nomination and sponsorship of the 2nd respondent’s candidates for the election.”
“So when they give you with the right hand they take it with the left.
The evacuees arrived in aircraft owned by Air Peace and the Nigerian Airforce (NAF), which conveyed the evacuees from Aswan in Egypt to Abuja, Nigeria’s capital.
“It is in the family of Aganama that any Igwe must emerge and then be crowned by the Okpala Awkuzu who is aged 97,” he said.
Mr Ani said the letter was signed by the Commission’s Permanent Secretary, Ifeoma Anyanwutaku, seeking prompt payment of six months’ salaries owed to the police personnel.
Read below 14 quick points to note about them:
The Ijaw Youth Congress alleges that SPDC had excluded indigenous players from its operations at the EA fields in breach of the community content guidelines.
I will keep appealing to them.
Justice Tijani Ringim of the Federal High Court sitting in Ikoyi, Lagos has ordered the interim forfeiture of the sum of N725,345,897.77 and a property situated at Plot J 37A 218 Close, 2nd Avenue, Banana Island, Ikoyi, Lagos linked to Patrick Akpobolokemi, a former Director-General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, NIMASA.
On her part, Zubaida Baba-Ibrahim (HumAngle Media), said she now has a better understanding of the laws around women’s rights.
“The fact that you contribute more than any other member in the 9th assembly?
Earlier, Humphrey Nwafor and Chris Ogbonna, both NLC and TUC state chairmen, respectively, had in their separate addresses listed challenges facing workers in the state.
“Traders with perishable goods were allowed to evacuate their goods so as not to incur losses.”
“We are in a constant conversation, we need to collaborate to fight the spread of violence in the Sahel, the growing instability in Burkina Faso, the continuing violence in the Lake Chad Basin and the rise of Islamic State In West Africa (ISWAP),” he said.
INEC Resident Electoral Commissioner in Adamawa State, Hudu Ari, on Sunday declared Mrs Dahiru, also called Binani, winner of the governorship election in the state while the collation of the results of the supplementary election held the previous day was ongoing.
Several other persons were also reported injured and property destroyed in the incident that occurred on Monday morning
Meanwhile, the leaders of the NLC and TUC congratulated the governor on his re-election for another term in office.
Terrorist releases three more FGC Yauri pupils
Mr Wike also expressed support for the incoming Tinubu administration and expressed optimism that he (Tinubu) will turn the country around.
It said the instant suit was similar to the earlier one and that Mr Kanu had filed an appeal against the judgement.
Policeman killed while chasing suspected criminals – Official
But is it enough for them to even cause injury to this man?”
Governor Oyebanji says people living with disability are special to his administration and that his government would work hard to bring out the best in them.
She also expressed confidence to deliver on the responsibilities of the deputy speaker and serve her constituency with distinction if her party zoned the position to the south west.
NAN also reports that the Lagos State Election Petition Tribunal has received a total of 48 petitions in respect of the 2023 elections held on 25 February and 18 March.
According to the report, as of 2021, “Nigeria was the fourth-largest source of liquified natural gas to the EU and United Kingdom (14 per cent of total supplies); with at least 40 per cent of Liquified Natural Gas (LNG) produced in Nigeria currently exported to Europe, and discussions ongoing to increase investments and exports.”
“Njoku filed a Motion on Notice seeking for an order of the court to correct “typographical errors and accidental slip” in the lead judgement of the Supreme Court.
Mr Ekweremadu, a former deputy senate president, represents Enugu West Senatorial District in the current Senate.
“Ahmed Usman-Ododo is hereby returned as the duly elected governorship candidate of APC for the November 2023 governorship election,” he said.
Asiwaju is an inclusive person, who made a woman his deputy governor, who did not just become a senator but elevated his wife to the status of a senator.
Policy actions or economic reforms must be predicated on inclusion, transparency and accountability, it said.
“No doubt the parade will win more admirers for the Nigerian Army as it will provide another opportunity to showcase its reputation for excellent and colourful parades,” he said.
Saliu, Director of Academic Planning, for the NUC on 3 March 2023.
“We are a minority caucus and we are pledging commitment to the unity of the great alliance of the 10th Assembly.
They all testified against her before the committee.
“I told them that as adults, assumptions in situations like that were wrong, I then insisted that we all take the guy to the hospital for verification and if truly he was injured I would take responsibility, otherwise he will pay for the mirror damaged!
He added that the president-elect is yet to inform him and other aspirants of his preferred candidate.
Moving the application for the final forfeiture of the properties, the EFCC counsel, Rotimi Oyedepo, SAN, had argued that it would be in the interest of justice for the court to grant the 11 prayers being sought and also order the final forfeiture of same to the Federal Government.
He listed them as Federal COE, Otukpo, Benue State; Federal COE Jama’are, Bauchi State; Federal COE, Sokoto; Federal COE Isu, Ebonyi State; Federal COE, Ekiadolor, Edo State; and Federal COE, Iwo, Osun State.
The police, however, did not provide details of when and how the corps member allegedly committed the offences.
The agency’s boss, Bolaji Oreagba, said the crash was a ‘man-made’ accident which could have been prevented if over-speeding was avoided.
This is, however, contrary to the family’s claim that it was made to provide every item used to attend to the patient including the WHO-recommended Ribavirin that it could only get in Nasarawa State.
The Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola also disclosed the council approved the construction of 283.4km roads to BUA Cement company under the Federal Government’s tax credit scheme at the cost of N328 billion.
He said he only received a letter dated 17 January informing him of the withdrawal of his appointment 10 days after the inauguration of the board.
“We also made giant strides in infrastructure.
NAN reports that while former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) came second with 6,984,520 votes in the election.
The expert identified other factors of environmental degradation as urbanisation, lack of effective laws, nature of geological physical expression, nature of the soil, blocking of drainage channels with solid waste and construction on flood plains.
It will perhaps take digging deep into law reports to find out the important cases he has handled.
But the judge declined to listen to Mr Fintiri’s lawyer insisting that things must be done according to law.
Earlier in the month, data from the Nigerian Upstream Petroleum Regulatory Commission (NUPRC) showed that Nigeria produced an average of 998,602 barrels of crude oil per day in April.
“I will never give up on this journey until victory is achieved,” he said.
The Customs Area Controller of Seme Customs, Comptroller Dera Nnadi disclosed this in a statement on Friday in Semé.
“Employment of over 3, 000 teaching and non-teaching staff in the state’s owned tertiary institutions and regularisation of over 500 casual staff in various Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) among others.
Another protester, Bukola Veronica, said they no longer recognise Mr Adebanjo as acting leader of Afenifere.
He also said the organisation chose the Chika community following its assessment which shows that there are more women interested in acquiring new skills within the community.
65 people arrested over deadly cult clash in Uyo – Police
“I want to commend the entire team for being patriotic, honest, efficient and professional in delivering the mandate of the FRSC.
“As if they were not getting the desired results of denting his image, and possibly placing the traducers under a heavier conscience load, they tried to persuade him to leave the country and go take a rest,” he said, adding that it is also not impossible that those urging him to leave the country may have planted the impersonators ostensibly to tar the Eagle’s immaculate appearance.
The NASSP Scale-Up is a follow-on project to the National Social Safety Nets project executed between June 2016 – December 2022, which established the National Social Register (NSR) as the database of poor and vulnerable Nigerians (National Social Register) across the 36 States of the Federation and the FCT; and the framework for delivery of social assistance.
Also, most movie scenes took place in one setting, Boma’s house, which was managed correctly.
The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has fixed 15 April for the conduct of supplementary elections across Nigeria
For example, in Kaduna State today, people are being suspended from the party front, left, right and centre without due process,
A clip of the broadcast is posted on Facebook.
In his application, Mr Owuru prayed the Court of Appeal for “an order of prohibitory injunction compelling Buhari, AGF and INEC, their servants…from any further undertaking or engaging in any act of usurpation of adjudged acquired constitutional rights and mandate as the winner of the 2019 presidential election.”
The organisation filed its suit marked ECW/CCJ/APP/35/20 filed on 4 September 2020, citing the allegedly offensive aspects of the code to include Articles 3.1.1, 3.1.2, 15.2.1 and 15.2.1 of its 6th Edition and Articles 11.5.1 of the amendments to the 6th Edition.
PREMIUM TIMES reported how some gunmen shot Mr Ewa dead in his palace on 27 February, two days after the 2023 presidential election.
Francis said that the former pope, who was born Karol Wojtyla in Poland, is “these days the object of insulting and unfounded insinuations.”
✍🏾✍🏾” she added.
“The governor was visiting Ido-Osi, and in a show of courtesy decided to pay a visit to Segun Oni.
The Nigerian Senate has appealed to the government of the United Kingdom to pardon its member, Ike Ekweremadu, who was found guilty of organ trafficking in that country.
“We, therefore, respectfully, once again, appeal to other aspirants to step down their ambition in the interest of national unity, peace, national stability of Nigeria and party cohesion,” he appealed.
The NBA said Mr Wali was abducted after his convoy came under the abductors’ attack along the road.
He stated that he met with Mr Otti, a member of LP, in Lagos on Tuesday and also held another meeting with the party’s governorship candidate in Enugu State, Chijioke Edeoga.
Chairman of PACAC, Itself Sagay, a professor of law and Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), had been at loggerheads with Mr Malami over his handling of corruption cases.
Why didn’t you wait for us to come?” Mr Victor quoted the panel members as telling Mr Agbazue.
The total cash reward is 50 per cent higher than what it paid shareholders for the previous year.
The APC stated that Mr Okanigbuan was not nominated and sponsored by the AA as its candidate to contest the presidential elections, adding that the party “was not and could not have been excluded from the election as it participated in the presidential election with the 4th respondent (Al-mustapha) as its candidate” who participated in the election and scored 14,542 votes.
The meeting at Mr Oni's residence in Ifaki-Ekiti lasted several hours.
Mr Umahi said, however, that he might reverse the decision and urged the newly sworn-in officials to read widely; be prudent and magnify their offices.
Erdoğan, in his letter, also underscored the importance of Nigeria as the “strongest nation in the African continent” while wishing Asiwaju Tinubu a successful tenure of office that will usher in progress for the people of Nigeria.
“It is,” Cahill replied.
No fewer than five parties and a presidential candidate in the 2019 election are currently challenging the outcome of the February election in court.
“Chimamanda’s letter was against entire Nigeria’s Democracy that was fought and procured with patriotic bloods and undeterred resolve of democrats, chief among them being Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu,” he said.
Until recently, Mr Peterside was director general of NIMASA.
I hope that you will continue to push for these initiatives with kind eyes on the situation and plight of the underprivileged people in Africa and around the world.
So when I tell people how difficult it is to develop Africa you now understand what it means.
The apex Igbo socio-cultural organisation, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, has denied claims that it had planned to participate in the inauguration of Nigeria’s president-elect, Bola Tinubu, on 29 May.
The two issues were whether the prosecution had proven the offences as charged against the defendants and whether the defendants were not covered by the defence of justification and privilege.
Mr Tinubu, who won the 25 February presidential election, is expected to be sworn in on 29 May.
Now that the season of politics, politicking and electioneering is over, it is time for all of us to collaborate, including diaspora Nigerian citizens, writers and intelligentsias like the Chimamandis of the US, Canada, the UK and elsewhere, to team-up and get Nigeria working again under PRESIDENT BOLA AHMED TINUBU.
While Charles Adeleye, 56, was appointed the 6th substantive registrar for the university, Robert Awoyemi, 53, was appointed as the librarian, according to a statement by the institution’s acting Director, Corporate Communications and Protocol, Adegbenro Adebanjo.
This was contained in the EFCC follow-up letter, dated 13 April, to Mr Akpabio through his lawyer, Umeh Kalu, SAN.
The convener also disclosed that Chima Korieh, a professor at the Institute of African Studies, UNN, would be the keynote speaker, while Damian Opata, UNN emeritus professor, and Water Hawthrone, a professor of History from Michigan State University, US, would be among the lead paper presenters.
Speaking in response to an issue raised by Mr Bagudu, Mr Buhari said “An important reason I congratulate Asiwaju on winning is because the opposition got support and false hope from outside and went on to create the impression that they will win, that they will defeat us.
By way of this letter, therefore, I convey to you my warmest congratulations on your coronation.
• Ibrahim Bomai – Yobe South
Private funding vital to survival of Nigerian universities – Osinbajo
The two leaders also discussed the importance of inclusive leadership representing all Nigerians, continued comprehensive security cooperation, and reforms supporting economic growth.
In the alternative, they want an order mandating INEC to conduct a fresh election, without the participation of APC and its candidate.
Mr Oluwatola said: “We all need to work together to make sure that we can track how agriculture funds in the country are being utilised.”
In April, Nigeria recorded an output of 999,000 barrels per day (bpd), a reduction compared to the 1.3 million bpd in March.
He came third in the election but he, and Atiku Abubakar of the PDP, who came second, are challenging the victory of the President-elect, Bola Tinubu, of the ruling APC.
On Wednesday, residents of the area recounted how the armed gang invaded the community on Tuesday night to abduct the villagers.
Giving further details, Mr and Mrs Olusola said their daughter, who is now in pre-school, was enrolled in the school in January 2022, adding that they noticed she had been unnecessarily “downcast” before confirming the assault.
OBITUARY: Bola Ajibola: Nigerian icon of jurisprudence, public service goes home at 89
In a preliminary objection to the suit, the National Assembly informed the court that Mr Ekpenyong’s failure to serve the parliament with a pre-action notice concerning his grouse with some sections of the CAMA, rendered the entire case worthless.
Former President Olusegun Obasanjo has appealed to the British court that convicted former Nigerian Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu, and his wife, Beatrice, for organ harvesting to temper justice with mercy.
Kenya and Nepal are on the list of amber countries where international recruitment is only permitted in compliance with the terms of the government-to-government agreement.
National consensus was reached on 35 of them and they were transmitted to him.
“At this trying time, we pray for God’s grace and mercy upon him and those left behind to mourn him,” he added.
Mrs Eyakenyi, who is the deputy governor-elect of Akwa Ibom State, told her colleagues (senators) that the protests by the Oron residents against naira scarcity was hijacked by hoodlums who attacked bank officials and destroyed property.
One casualty on the ground with others injured,” the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA) posted on its Twitter handle.
The performance, which was held in two sessions, was sponsored by Parallex Bank.
The contraction also meant that both staffing levels and purchasing activities fell.
“Under article 19(3), restrictions on the right to freedom of expression must be ‘provided by law’, and necessary ‘for respect of the rights or reputations of others’ or ‘for the protection of national security or of public order (ordre public), or of public health and morals’”
He ensured that among all the men that came out, the party worked with me to ensure that the good work I started in my first term did not go to waste.
The case mainly involves the federal government’s appeal challenging last year’s decision of the Court of Appeal dismissing the terrorism and treasonable felony charges against Mr Kanu.
The report claimed that Chinese companies working in parts of Nigeria where attacks are frequent have been striking security deals with insurgents.
She told NAN that traffic would be diverted through Costain and the Lagos Island-bound portion of the Marine Bridge as alternative routes.
There are currently 11,055 Nigerian-trained doctors in the UK, according to the UK General Medical Council’s data.
On the day Mr Shettima was justifying the selection of Mr Abbas, another APC lawmaker was insisting on contesting for the speakership position.
And I asked the young man, ‘You are coming to see me one day before the election, what magic do you want me to do to help you?’ This is the same complaint of virtually all the stakeholders in all the constituencies of the state.
On Saturday, a telephone conversation between Peter Obi, the presidential candidate of the Labour Party, and David Oyedepo, the founder of the Living Faith Church Worldwide, was leaked to the public.
A member of the House of Representatives from Kano State, Shamsuddeen Danbazau, has urged the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), to zone the position of the Senate President to the North-west geopolitical zone.
The World Health Organisation (WHO) has called on African leaders to increase their investment in health as part of efforts to rapidly reduce the burden of malaria and save the lives of its populations.
Others are Ijora, SQ MTX Ijora, SQ MTX Iponri, K 9 police Barracks, Kam Salem, SQ MTX McCarthy, Mopol 2 Keffi, Mounted Troops, Obalende Barracks, Police Officers’ Mess Obalende and Women Barracks amongst others.
He has continued to impress upon his supporters the essence of the legal process and will not now or in the future encourage any violence against the state.
They urged the court in their separate petitions to either declare them the winner of the election or order a fresh election.
“The strike is unnecessary as it will increase the hardship on our citizens, affect flight schedules, lead to economic losses and negatively impact our rating globally,” the aviation ministry said in its reaction Monday afternoon.
Counts three and four bordered on failure to make full disclosure of assets, receiving cash without going through a financial institution and intent to avoid a lawful transaction in alleged violation of Section 1(1) of the Money Laundering Act, 2011 and punishable under Section 16(2)(b) of the Act.
“I want to let you know you are not an accident, God created you for a purpose, and you will fulfil the purpose.
Acting National Chairman of the PDP, Umar Damagum, stated this on Tuesday while addressing journalists at the party’s secretariat in Abuja.
"Killing him in the most gruesome manner through mob action is not only barbaric, it is illegal and unacceptable."
At the first edition of the conference last year, Nigeria’s Aviation Minister, Hadi Sirika, urged all relevant stakeholders in the industry to invest in airports across the country.
The application sought to stop the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) from reversing an official’s illegal declaration of Binani as the winner of the election.
Similarly, Titilola Akinlawon, also a senior advocate and Founding Partner at Akinlawon & Ajomo, noted with displeasure the finding of ‘’The 50:50 by 2030 project report that only 33 per cent of senior judges are female.
Constitutionally, he is not obliged to.
“Alhaji Atiku Abubakar must be heard before his votes can be discountenanced by the tribunal,” it said.
The hopes and dreams of a nation ride on the shoulders of these young footballers, and they are ready to soar to new heights.
Effective utilisation of gas resources will enhance energy security and achieve net-zero emission goals in Nigeria, an official said.
He also said outgoing President Muhammadu Buhari failed to achieve much in his first term because of the election of candidates not endorsed by the ruling party as leaders of the parliament.
It is quite disheartening that under the leadership of HE Sen. Abdullahi Adamu, we are failing to abide by the provisions of our party’s constitution and the party is being managed based on discretionary decisions of Sen. Adam and Sen. Omisore.
Mr Adejobu was reacting to a tweet by one Ayo-Bankole Akintujoye.
In 2015, despite the president and vice president being from the North-west and South-west, the ruling party anointed Ahmad Lawan and Femi Gbajabiamila as Senate President and Speaker respectively.
“I and members of my state executive as well as members of APC in Taraba state received the pronouncement with rude shock and utmost disappointment,” he said.
Sudan’s health education and medical education in general have become a ghost of themselves, thus making disdain for why Nigerians will gravitate towards it anything but stereotype.
Mohammed Garba, who replaced Ms Bulkachuwa, and another member of the panel, Abdu Aboki, were later elevated to the Supreme Court bench.
Onuoha: Well, I always say that for me, the race is not for the swift, the strongest, the richest or the most competent.
Read Mr Shehu’s full statement below.
He further stated that by Section 308 of the Constitution, the EFCC is prevented from instituting any civil or criminal suit against him.
“In the raging disconcertment and belligerency, it is the Nigerian people that suffer as neither PSC nor Nigieria Police can function effectively without the support and cooperation of each other,” he said.
Mr Babatunde said with the realities of climate change, insecurity, continued conflict, inflation and rising food prices, Nigeria is at risk of food scarcity.
“Happily, the source of the “data” of a housing deficit of 17 million did not prove eternally elusive.
However, speaking with PREMIUM TIMES on Wednesday when he was paraded alongside11 other criminal suspects at the police headquarters in Eleweran, Abeokuta, Mr Ayangbesan denied offering the police bribe.
The editorial states that Buhari will not be missed.
The group says zoning the position to the North-central is vital for national cohesion, unity and development.
According to the agreement, the project aims to provide cash transfers to poor and vulnerable people in both rural and urban areas in Nigeria, in response to economic shocks, for at least two years.
The DE registration, earlier scheduled to end on 20 April, was extended to continue after the computer-based Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME), which ended on 6 May.
In 2021, Africa accounted for about 95 per cent of all malaria cases and 96 per cent of deaths, with children under 5 years of age accounting for about 80 per cent of all malaria deaths in the region.
“They are obliged to protect civilians and ensure the safety and security of all United Nations and associated personnel as well as their premises, our assets, and trapped civilians must be able to receive assistance, access essential supplies and evacuated to safer zones as needed.”
Mr Malami, while reacting to the sales of the crude oil, said President Muhammadu Buhari got the news of the alleged missing oil in 2016, and set up a committee to investigate the matter.
The WHO Country Representative in Nigeria, Walter Mulombo, said the brain drain ravaging the health sector will pose a great challenge to health service delivery.
Abia has seven members from the Labour Party in the House of Representatives.
Tetfund allocates N30 billion for high-impact projects in 18 tertiary institutions
The electoral umpire contended that no ballots, ballot boxes, BVAS devices, accreditation and collation, or election material logistics were manipulated” as alleged by Atiku and the PDP.
Secondly, contrary to the romantic picture of Peter Obi painted by the writer, he has always been part and parcel of Nigeria’s political establishment.
Mr Gbajabiamila, who was represented by a member of the House, Isiaka Ibrahim (APC, Ogun), noted that it is to “ascertain the accuracy of recorded revenue from sales during this period, the utilisation of this revenue and identify any likely additional losses in revenue to the country.”
President Muhammadu Buhari, former President Olusegun Obasanjo and Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State have paid tributes to a former Judge of the International Court of Justice, Hague, Netherlands, Bola Ajibola, who died on Saturday at the age of 89 years.
It found that women make up approximately 40 per cent of all lawyers in Nigeria.
NDLEA arrests 218 suspects with 5,610kg illicit drugs in Kaduna
According to her, the $800 million is the first tranche of palliatives to be disbursed through cash transfers to about 50 million Nigerians, who belong to the most vulnerable category in society.
More so, he said that the Ministry of Interior also got approval for the establishment of the National Institute for Domestic Security at Irogbo-Ilesha, Osun.
Governor Wike, who is a member of the PDP, led other PDP governors to rebel against the national leadership of the party and its presidential candidate, Atiku, following disagreement over which of the north or the south should produce President Muhammadu Buhari’s successor.
He was recently criticised by some Yoruba leaders for tagging their ethnic group as “political rascals.”
Reacting, the Vice-President of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Damian Okeke-Ogene, accused the president-elect of being a “tribalist”, according to a report by Vanguard newspaper.
He further explained that there is limited access to credit for vehicle purchases by Nigerians.
Mr Mulombo said although there have been improvements in health budget, more is needed to eradicate malaria from the region.
Those who received them included Abike Dabiri-Erewa, chairperson NiDCOM, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Sani Gwarzo, and the Representative of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mustapha Habeeb.
“All the bid winners, which are Nigerian companies, demonstrated their commercial and technical competences, as well as compliance with Nigerian Content regulations,” SPDC stated.
At the university, she climbed the ladder of the administrative cadre and gained experience and rose to the position of a Deputy Registrar and Secretary, College of Health Sciences in 2018.
The outcome of the elections, in which more than 10 governors failed to make it to the senate sent a clear message that ordinary Nigerians know the power of their votes and how to use it.
The epidemic of riots and strikes in Nigerian universities also makes the need to seek any university but Nigeria pleasant and attractive.
Speaking individually after the meetings, the governors of Borno and Yobe states said they remained appreciative of the efforts of the president in curbing the threats of Boko Haram terrorists in their states and were happy that peace had been restored.
The Economic and Financial Crime Commission (EFCC) says it has deployed 100 armed operatives to combat vote buying in Kano, Katsina and Jigawa during Saturday’s supplementary elections in the states.
During the trial of Jesus, Peter exhibited two contrasting personalities in one.
The commission should not enforce those provisions.
The nominees include Ayogu Eze (Enugu State), Peter Opara (Imo State), and Hauwa Aliyu (Jigawa State).
Pelumi Obisesan-Aina is a doctoral candidate at SOAS, University of London and a visiting researcher at the Centre for Democracy and Development.
The source added that there are thousands of people at the borders and as such there will be delays in getting Nigerians into Egypt.
According to the Saudi television station al-Arabiya, five Saudi ships also brought 158 people from Sudan to the Red Sea city of Jeddah.
“The Lagos State Government Sunday said that a three-floor building under construction that partially collapsed on Ladipo Oluwole Street, Apapa ignored the stop work and seal up orders of the Lagos State Building Control Agency, LASBCA and continued construction behind the scene,” the statement reads.
The President sadly chooses to endorse the invasion and merely asks our people to learn to accommodate their neighbours who derive pleasure in killing and dispossesing them of their ancestral lands.
This is one of the reasons for the significantly lower vote count in this election relative to previous elections where millions of votes, substantially imaginary, were allotted to parties in various state constituencies.
The new police commissioner was decorated by the president, assisted by the IGP and his spouse, Maryam Ibrahim.
In fact, these workers are in the majority and they cover both state and local governments.
While the lawmakers await the decision on zoning, 11 lawmakers have declared interest in the position.
Mr Alabo said the Commissioner of Police in the state, Bartholomew Onyeka, visited the scene of the incident.
It should as well be noted that government cannot in any way be intimidated.”
A former Governor of Zamfara State, Abdulaziz Yari, has called on senators-elect to ignore religion and ethnicity sentiments when electing the Senate President.
With few laws to manage the spread of the technology, disinformation experts have long warned that deepfake videos could further serve people’s ability to discern reality from forgeries online, potentially being misused to set off unrest or a political scandal.
Also, at the NEC meeting, the finance minister provided an update on the issue of fuel subsidy disclosing that the council agreed on the need to remove the subsidy in an orderly and well-considered way.
Mrs Afuye stressed that the AGILE scheme would catapult e-learning to a higher pedestal for Ekiti students to compete with their counterparts elsewhere.
In the 34th minute, the pressure finally paid off, with Charles Agada levelling the score for the Eaglets, heading the ball into the net with pinpoint accuracy.
He added that Mr Egbetokun attended various courses both at home and abroad, and served in various investigative, operational, and administrative capacities, including as Commander Rapid Response Squad (RSS), Lagos.
Two of the aspirants, Smart Adeyemi and Shuaibu Abubakar, a son of former Kogi State governor, Abubakar Audu, filed their separate suits in Abuja to challenge the APC’s governorship primary election in Kogi State.
The Taraba Chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has urged the security agencies in the state to arrest its former state chairman, Ibrahim El’Sudi, for alleged impersonation.
The court had, on 1 February granted Mr Kanu, the permission to apply for an order of mandamus he sought in an ex-parte motion filed on his behalf by Mr Ozekhome, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria.
He said the organisation was worried about the common mistakes students and writers often made in the usage of English words and in the three major Nigerian languages.
He said INEC’s reason for declaring the election inconclusive was that “the election had not been validly and successfully conducted in Ward 4.”
They worked against their party’s presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, and supported Mr Tinubu of the APC in the 25 February election.
The police spokesperson in Ogun State, Abimbola Oyeyemi, confirmed that three persons were killed in the fracas.
It was erroneous for him to say that opposition parties lost election because of over confidence.
The commission said it also relied on the earlier processes filed before the court where it raised jurisdictional issues and urged the court to strike out the entire suit
Mr Tinubu’s age and educational qualifications are other grounds for the APP’s petition.
The death toll in the armed clashes between the Sudanese Army and the Rapid Support Forces (RSF) has climbed to 822, the Sudanese Doctors Union said Tuesday.
The official expressed displeasure with the Asian giant over what he described as the different ‘malpractices’ in the different trade policies that could “obstruct bilateral” trade.
“So, I think it is not an issue, they are just overheating it and you know why.
The only legal and legitimate option is for her candidate, Peter Obi, not Chimamandi herself because she lacks the locus standi, to approach the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal as provided by Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended).
Before his emergence as the new president-general, he was the chairman of Council of Elders of Ohanaeze Ndigbo.
Ebonyi Govt gets safe space for GBV survivors
Mrs Ekwunife said getting appointment for biometric capturing at the passport offices now takes between five to eight weeks, while it takes many applicants four months waiting for their passports to be ready for collection after the biometric exercise.
It was first marked in 1970.
Of course, that is easier said than done.
It is not clear if the kidnappers have contacted the family or anyone else connected to Mr Wali.
The report explained that having inefficient or inadequate systems of transportation, logistics, and trade-related infrastructure can severely impede a country’s ability to compete on a global scale.
The seven-member committee will be chaired by a former governor of Kaduna State, Ahmed Makarfi, with Lauretta Ogwuche as the Secretary.
They were said to have written four justices of the Supreme Court- Mary Peter-Odili, Kudirat Kekere-Ekun, Mohammed Garba and Ibrahim Saulawa who sat on the case, asking them to insert Mr Njoku’s name as the second respondent.
Both Messrs Mejabi and Chidiebere have made useful statements to confirm that the latter has been involved in dealing with illicit drugs in the past.
My approach will now be to seek the support and closeness of the men, the buy-in and confidence of the men.
Kwara State governor, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq [PHOTO CREDIT: AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq on Facebook]Mr AbdulRazaq said his agenda focused on infrastructure renewal, ease of doing business, expansion of economic base through support for micro- and macro-economic activities.
Inzaghi, seeking to spice his boring attack, sent in Romelu Lukaku for Edwin Dzeko in the 66th minute and it took the Belgian forward just eight minutes to create an assist for Lautaro Martinez to break the deadlock and seal a final berth in Istanbul.
These people have not been paid for February and March.
The programme offers a broad range of topics to support African Leaders in developing the skills and capabilities required to fulfil their leadership potential in the 21st Century
They show a government’s commitment to an issue and help build trust – arguably the key currency in today’s new Cold War.
He reappointed the immediate past Deputy Vice Chancellor, Kasimu Shehu, as Director, Research and Innovation; Isa Abor, a professor in the Department of Mathematics as Director, Consultancy and Entrepreneurship, and Kabiru Umar of the Department of Chemistry, as Director, School of Basic Studies.
The journalists were tried for offences of criminal conspiracy and defamation of character.
KS1 has a following of over 391,000 on Instagram.
In the letter dated 13 April to the UK Home Office, the newspaper sought to understand the circumstances surrounding Mr Obi’s ordeals in the European country during Easter.
Mr Maduabum said that the event would take place at the Transcorp Hilton Hotel, Abuja.
President Buhari commended the late Mr Abdulkadir for his role in strengthening the country’s university education.
The second half saw City continue their dominance, even as Real Madrid made several attempts to change the game’s dynamics with substitutions.
The unions also demanded the halt of the planned demolition of aviation agencies buildings in Lagos by the Ministry of Aviation for an airport city project.
In the 1charge marked: CR/12/2022 and dated October 21, the defendants were accused of conspiring with others to forge a judgment of the Supreme Court.
He noted that the effective and efficient monitoring of nutrition programmes through media spotlighting on nutrition issues and feedback mechanisms on the utilisation of resources expended on nutrition will improve accountability, “which will ultimately lead to an increase in nutrition investment by major stakeholders in the country.”
“I cannot comment on political matters, it is out of my Jurisdiction.
With dawn came ethnic and religious profiling, new productions of hate speeches, threats, and gaslighting.
In the offending publication, Mr Olufemi wrote that Hillcrest factory, a rice milling company, was “permitting its workers to smoke Indian hemp and tobacco on duty.”
He might be doing the same to other girls in school,” he added.
To avoid the collapse of vital independent media, we need a more coordinated global response that creates a step change in support,” the IFPIM said.
However, Fuji musicians have shown it is a small leap to a new wave of Afrobeats opening their arms to embrace the infusion and crossovers.
“Defence 11” and “Defence “13” said Gibril Massaquoi, a former commander of Sierra Leone’s Revolutionary United Front (RUF), “passed through Lofa County” in Liberia’s north, before coming to Monrovia to meet Charles Taylor, the then-Liberian President to plead with him to help end the war in Sierra Leone.
“In the past 25 years, we have been producing and manufacturing indomie noodles in Nigeria and we have done well”.
It’s a tradition in many cultures to watch the big game or a tournament or race via Nigeria sport betting.
UBA appears in the pick for presently trading significantly below its actual value The bank’s PE ratio at the last trading session was 1.5x, while its EPS is N5.17.
We reiterate our call on the Federal Government to live up to its constitutional responsibility of protecting the lives and properties of all Nigerians in all its ramification.
He said the family would announce his funeral arrangements in due course.
— Asiya R., Not your Daddy (@AsiyaRodrigo) April 2, 2023
Mrs Adeyeye said the R21 malaria vaccine dossier complied substantially with the best international standards with which the dossier was bench-marked, adding that its torage temperature is 2-8 °C.”
Without any law passed by the state House of Assembly to back the policy, Mr Adah said, “It is arbitrary for the state and dictatorial in a democratic setting for the government to curtail the movement of others without any valid law passed by the National Assembly or the state House of Assembly.”
• Adams Aliyu Oshiomhole – Edo North
“Out of the 31 passengers, 24 male adults got injured, two passengers were not injured – that is one female adult and one female child, while five male adults lost their lives in the crash.
The Human and Environmental Development Agenda (HEDA Resource Centre), a leading anti-corruption organization, has written a petition to the Chairman of the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC), expressing its concern about the Federal Civil Service Commission employing staff with fake employment letters.
According to the court documents, the father repeatedly struck him across the back using metal sticks or rods, which he retrieved from a basket next to the television in the living room.
“Today even with all these developments we’re trying to put on ground, people are trying to destroy it.
Ms Daudu-Williams said that there was not enough evidence in the defence given by Mr Maina to prove that he did not commit the offence.
The Supreme court on Thursday granted leave to the federal government to file nine new grounds of appeal against the release of Nnamdi Kanu the leader of the proscribed leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB).
Mr Gbajabiamila is one of the closest associates of the president-elect.
Misinformation and disinformation thrive more robustly when authorities withhold information that ordinarily should be made available to the public.
The number of people watching the tournament peaked in 2022 at 13.16 million.
He returned to Nigeria on 24 April after a four-week vacation in France.
President Buhari prays Mr Adenuga grows in health, strength, and continual sound mind.
Mr Soludo stated this while addressing the state workers during the 2023 May Day celebration held at Dr Alex Ekwueme Square, Awka, on Monday.
The university’s Vice-Chancellor, Kayode Adebowale, represented by his deputy in charge of Administration, Ezekiel Ayoola, thanked the donor organisation and assured that the auditorium would be put to good use and be well maintained.
“This dire development imposes on all of us political leaders, an urgent obligation to accelerate the democratic dividends for all our nation’s people or risk the total loss of legitimacy that can only lead to bad outcomes.
“I think it is a good coincidence for me to say goodbye to you, and thank you for tolerating me for almost eight years,” the President said.
Before the end of this administration, before May 29, we will fly,” Mr Sirika said then, adding that “Negotiation meetings with the Ethiopian Airlines Group Consortium and the Federal Government of Nigeria are ongoing.
“It was later I saw a bank official I knew in my area,” Mr Enin recalled.
Mr Fintiri thanked and appreciated national and international election observers, the media, security agencies and all other stakeholders for the role they played in ensuring a free, fair and credible election.
The governor stated that the assembly led by its Speaker, Francis Nwifuru, made tremendous sacrifices for the actualisation of the airport, which he said cost N36 billion.
FGC Kaduna Land Crisis: Old students accuse state government of encroachment
The decision is, however, not final, as a displeased party can still appeal to the Supreme Court.
The President of Atyap Community Development Association, a community-based organization in the area, Sam Timbuwak, said the initial killings occurred at Atak’Njei community.
At worst, it can be stealing, but not robbery, unless there is evidence that he (Ohadoma) used any instrument that can harm,” he added.
They are drawn from five of the six geo-political regions of Nigeria – South-west, South-south, North-west, North-East and North-central.
He urged the party faithful not to express fear, in spite of the propaganda, harassment, death threats or intimidation from the opposition parties, especially as the election drew nearer.
“We have given an order to stop work, not only at this site but also in all of the construction sites in Banana Island.
“For the avoidance of doubt, the commission denies these allegations and advises the public to disregard them,” he said.
JAMB conducts the Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) for admission seekers nationwide, and this year’s examination which was scheduled to hold between 25 April and 2 May has been extended to Saturday 6
There really has to be those teams set in place.
“On reciept of the report, nearby joint Police and other security Agencies mobilized to the scene and commenced search and rescue operation with a view to rescue the hostages and arrest the assailants.
He said these road traffic crashes are the leading cause of death and disability in the country.
Villagers apprehensive as Zamfara bandits relocate to Katsina
3: The Hate that hate produced:
For more information, please email exec@texem.co.uk
This means that even if we spend everything, we will still be left with a huge infrastructural deficit,” he said.
“Whatever you heard is the art of human endeavour, and we are not perfect as human beings.
“This will complement the 2030 agenda for Sustainable Development, with the global and national commitment to achieving universal health coverage and universal access to sexual and reproductive health,” she said.
In addition, the panel will investigate all proceeds recovered through the Whistle-blower Policy of the federal government and the level of compliance with the policy.
Inuwa Jalingo, the 2023 Census manager and director, National Population Commission (NPC), said this at a news conference in Abuja on Sunday
Mr Zelensky has joined other world leaders like Benjamin Netanyahu of Isreal, Recep Erdoğan of Turkey, Emmanuel Macron of France who have congratulated Nigeria’s president-elect.
I choose my methods of intervention without the permission of social media border patrols, so where you find a gap, just pick up the baton where last deposited and stop whining and belly-aching – “he stopped talking all this while, why now?” etc etc ad nauseum .
Kola Oyeneyin, CEO of Opportunik Global Funds, who was also in attendance, emphasised the importance of equity and justice in the development of the economy.
When not practising journalism, Mr Akinbajo likes reading and watching football.
“About 450,000 digital gadgets were procured and distributed to all the local governments,” he said
He said that the party had to, however, find a way of persuasively reaching some level of consensus.
Osinbajo arrives in Nairobi for Mo Ibrahim forum
The conflict-induced food crisis has been exacerbated by climate change, manifesting notably in rapid desertification and the shrinking of Lake Chad that millions of people had relied on for livelihoods.
He was also one of five commissioners on the Eritrea-Ethiopia Boundary Commission, organized through the Permanent Court of Arbitration.
It was also gathered that the police and local vigilantes are on the trail of the kidnappers.
I have seen stars, even Polaris
Over 500 customers were seen inside the First Bank premises in Oron, standing in different cues, sweating it out to resolve many transaction failures.
He was subsequently arrested, handcuffed and taken to the State Criminal Investigation Department at Panti, Yaba area of Lagos.
In a petition to Governor Rotimi Akeredolu, the farmers through their lawyer protested the forceful eviction from Oluwa Forest Reserve by Amotekun operatives and other local militia.
When our reporter sent the pictures to his WhatsApp for confirmation, Mr Yusuf claimed that the pictures were not taken in the palace.
Easily overlooked however are those missives of violence directed against dissenting voices, real or suspect.
2023 Hajj: Intending Abuja pilgrims get date for medical screening
APC condemns attack on members in Rivers, indicts police
“Do not pay or share more of your sexual images with them.
The statement, read in part: “Despite the service of the certified true copy of the judgment on the Attorney General of the Federation, the Buhari administration has failed and/or refused to obey it.”
Mr Agu cited paragraph 29(1)(2) and (3) of the Schedule for Election Petitions as basis for the discontinuance of the petition.
Nigeria approves Action Plan 2022-2026 on Human Rights
Police make fresh accusations against detained NYSC member
He adjourned the matter until 5 May, for the defendant to show cause.
Maybe perhaps, this is where Nigeria begins to turn in the most positive ways forever.”
“In fact, some wealthy Nigerians don’t feel complete till they’ve had a home in the UK,” he added.
“To meet the increasing demand for animal feed in Nigeria, there is a need for innovation and technology to develop sustainable and efficient production methods which will support small-scale and rural communities through extension services training and other support,” he said.
Speaking on the decision to zone the position to Kaduna State, Mr Gagdi said given the performance of the APC in Kaduna during the presidential election, the state does not deserve to be allocated the speakership.
She took her child to the hospital, where he was found to have multiple horizontal bruises across his back and arms, linear in appearance and consistent with the use of a metal stick-like implement.
Mr Osinbajo, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria, said the landlord, who he encountered in 1989, had a policy of not renting his house to “Igbos, Ijebus and lawyers”.
Part of our roadmap, the Aviation Leading company has been established and approved by the council,” the minister said.
Mr Obi, who was the presidential candidate of the Labour Party, came third in the election.
Mr Ndume also said the Corps is under the leadership of Dickson Akoh as the national commandant.
Their lawyer subsequently asked that they be granted bail.
We are committed to this project.
My police commissioner was from Kano, he was a Muslim.
They argued that since outgoing President Muhammadu Buhari is from the north, his successor should come from the south.
I pray that Almighty Allah admit him to Aljanna Fridaus.”
The administrators of his estate – Adewusi Olatunji, Olanrewaju Akin-Deko, and Adegboyega Akin-Deko – are, in their petition filed at the Federal High Court in Abuja, demanding N2 billion for the shares of the firm they claimed to have lost to the alleged manipulations by the respondents.
The election had been not only rigged, but done in such a shoddy, shabby manner that it insulted the intelligence of Nigerians,” Ms Adichie stated.
“We are very friendly people and over the ages, we’ve lived all cultures and different people.
The fighting which has entered its fifth day has led to the death of over 270 people, the WHO said.
Until his death, he was the leader of “Fathers of Faith”, a group of Christian leaders in Akwa Ibom State with influence over the state’s politics.
In March, Mr Buhari assented to 16 constitutional amendment bills passed by the National Assembly and 24 State Houses of Assembly, however, he declined to sign 19 others into law.
Passengers aboard the vehicle are safe, Antony Blinken, US secretary of state said.
Atiku Bagudu, Kebbi State governor, lauded Mr Malami for contributing immensely to Nigeria’s democratic governance.
Mrs Nnamani died on Thursday, 4 May 2023, at Orthopaedic Hospital, Enugu, aged 58.
According to Babagana Kingibe, chairman organising committee for the event, other distinguished guests expected at the book presentation include Bola Tinubu, the President-elect, and Kashim Shettima, the Vice President-elect.
A magistrate’s court in Illorin, Kwara State, has jailed two Nigerian journalists for publishing a defamatory article against an agricultural company, Hillcrest Agro-Allied Industries Limited.
11:33am: Court dismisses AA’s petition.
Reacting in a statement on Tuesday, Damian Okeke, the acting president-general of Ohanaeze, described Mr Mbadinuju’s demise as “sad.”
• Katung Sunday Usman Kaduna South
It is unfortunate that the media had to be involved before we could access care,” the source said.
However, we cannot accept that violence and bloodshed are the normal route to power.
Injustice feeds on the wine of fear and suspends truth.
The president’s Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, confirmed this in a statement on Thursday in Abuja.
APC to liaise with Tinubu on 10th NASS leadership – Adamu
In court filings, the petitioner said the collation and declaration of presidential results were based on “illegal allocation of votes and does not reflect the actual votes cast …in Nigeria.”
Consequently, the NPN produced Joseph Wayas as senate president while NPP had John Wash Pam as deputy senate president.
Mr Shettima said Mr Tinubu wants to prevent a situation where the President, Vice President, Senate President and Speaker of the House of Representatives would all be Muslims.
Mr Nnukwu said the matter, which he said began in 2009, has resulted in the arrest, imprisonment and murder of some persons in the community.
Atiku and the PDP who jointly filed their petition at the court are praying for “An order Directing the Court’s Registry and the parties on modalities for admission of media practitioners and their equipment into the courtroom.”
Mrs Dahiru was hoping to upstage the incumbent governor, Ahmadu Fintiri of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), who scored more votes during the substantive election on 18 March.
Mr Oke who said he was one of the 20 plaintiffs in the suit instituted against INEC in 2007, noted that “INEC is yet to comply with the judgement that directed it (INEC) to allow Nigerians in the diaspora to vote in elections in their country of origin, Nigeria.”
This is not a buy, sell or hold recommendation but a stock investment guide.
“The Governor has equally directed the State Emergency Management Agency and the Peace Building Agency to visit the area and ascertain the humanitarian need so as to bring succour to the affected while thorough investigation is being carried out,” he added.
“This is the process open to law-abiding citizens, groups and organizations rather than resorting to cheap blackmail and using amorphous groups to malign the commission and its officials,” Mr Okoye said.
“This is a religious war.”
The video attracted criticisms with many questioning the source of the funding for the acquisition of the property.
“On 24 April 2023, I visited the 2 (two) police officers that were in the convoy, who are on admission on account of the gunshot wounds they sustained during the attack,” Mr Maikyau added.
“Those suspended by the party under the chairmanship of Abure remain suspended until the NEC decides otherwise.
In today’s Oyo State, in spite of his age, Koleoso remains one of the most respected statesmen and is deferred to by all and sundry, especially the political class, for his past contributions to the socio-political climate of the state.
Atiku calls for revamping of PDP to regain its dominant position
The police in Delta State, South-south Nigeria, say they have arrested 10 suspected kidnappers who specialise in terrorising people within Sapele and surrounding communities in the state.
Mr Fashola, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria, stated this on Sunday Politics, a programme Channels TV.
At a time all hands are on deck to build a Nigeria of Renewed Hope under the in-Coming President Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the unpatriotic Chimamandis opted for the ignoble act of stimulating crisis against Nigeria, a country that prepared them for their perceived global fames.
“This is one of the key elements of the Ninth Senate legislative agenda to reform the judiciary.
After long persuasions from the young boy, Mr Asadu yielded, but instead, asked his sister, Ms Asadu, to go to the bus stop and bring the classmate to their family house.
Nigeria’s President Muhammadu Buhari has condemned the killing of two American embassy officials and two police officers in south-east Nigeria.
45 journalists attacked in Nigeria in three months – Report
The President of NARD, Emeka Innocent, said the threat of a ‘no-work, no-pay policy’ would not resolve the issues the doctors raised.
Although, the Winter Olympics aren’t as popular as the Summer Games, they still remain a highly popular event that draws a wide audience.
Mr Akase noted that Mr Ortom remains the governor till 29 May.
“1st petitioner participated and was cleared to contest the presidential election while being a member of the PDP.
“Already, the corpses of the dead passengers have been claimed by relations for burial,” he said.
The report noted that policies ostensibly aimed at reducing food imports over the past years still have a lingering effect and increased energy tariffs have further exacerbated the problem.
Mr Oriola was announced as one of the recipients of the Dorothy Killam Fellowship in March.
He also assured Nigerians of government’s commitment to the provision of security for the lives and property of every citizen as well as foreigners in the country.
However, he has yet to tone down his devotion to the Fuji music genre but has shown can flow in a different direction if needed.
Mr Fashola urged Nigerians to allow the judiciary to carry out its obligations “according to law.”
However, Atiku and the PDP are asking the tribunal to set aside Mr Tinubu’s victory and to declare Atiku winner of the election.
Musa Oluwaseyi Akinfenwa (Real Sapphire FC)
He added that the technical teams are working to ensure that such challenges were not experienced during the remaining days of the examinations.
The CBN’s currency redesign before the elections undoubtedly contributed to its prominence.
Efforts by PREMIUM TIMES to get clarity on the modality to be adopted by the Nigerian government in the implementation of the new programme proved abortive.
“We are carefully monitoring the entire exercise along with state security agencies, towards providing a peaceful atmosphere for eligible voters to elect their leaders,“ he said.
Mr Iwuanyanwu appreciated Mr Uzodinma for his numerous achievements, particularly in the areas of road infrastructure, health and education in the State.
The landlord to the suspects’ parents, simply identified as Victor, would later learn from someone who was released from the police unit in December, that the two siblings were being held at the police facility, RRS Awkuzu.
Atiku Abubakar and Peter Obi, who were presidential candidates of the PDP and LP, respectively, have urged the court to nullify Mr Tinubu’s victory, citing alleged noncompliance with the electoral law among other irregularities during the election.
Right now, the combination of the seats of the minority parties is 163 seats against the 162 seats of the ruling party.
Security operatives kill two gunmen in Anambra
Messrs Njoku and Nwoga were earlier arraigned on 21 October 2022 on a charge of 14 counts of conspiring with others to forge a judgment of the Supreme Court.
“I dared the politicians and ended up at the Supreme Court three times.
The Federal Government of Nigeria has called for a ceasefire in the ongoing fighting in Sudan to enable countries to evacuate their nationals.
In a statement issued by the Vice President of Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON), Allen Onyema, over the issue on Sunday, the body said that tyre burst can happen to any airline in the world.
Highlighting the far-reaching reforms implemented by the PEBEC since its inception, Mr Osinbajo noted that PEBEC “has achieved the delivery of over 180 reforms and completed 7 National Action Plans geared towards improving the Nigerian business environment.
He tasked the new soldiers on loyalty, selfless service, courage, discipline, integrity and respect for others which he described as the core values of the Nigerian Army.
Mr Ganduje assured that nothing will change the plan of the zoning formula the governors had proposed for the party.
According to him, the military is still working round the clock to make sure there is peace and security in the country.
• Barau Jibrin – Kano North
For instance, the average electorate in the village should know in Igbo, Hausa, Yoruba, Efik languages the core function of a legislator.
Prosecutors have repeatedly argued that Mr Massaquoi breached rules of the safe house and came to Liberia to fight for Liberian government forces, who were being battled by rebels from the Liberians United for Reconciliation and Democracy.
“INEC says once election is completed, it should not be set aside pursuant to section 84 and 24(6) of Electoral Act.”
It is time to return to the highway so as to choose a road less travelled, a road of hard work, sacrifice, dedication, and hope.
He described it as being “frivolous, vexatious, highly misconceived and disclosing of no reasonable cause of action.”
Speaking on harassment of police officers, he advised that civilians should not take laws into their hands.
“Because the bulk of the crime that is committed in this country can be traced to drug abuse or misuse of drugs, be it political, criminal, security even at home, social, economic, all can be linked to drug abuse.
Nigeria must check what is appearing to be a dangerous trend of rising danger for journalists in the election years.
The source said the extension would be by one week, but if the crisis persists, the examination body may consider a further extension to accommodate every legitimate willing applicant.
The petitioners included political parties and their candidates including Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)’s Atiku Abubakar and Labour Party’s Peter Obi.
It is also questioning Tinubu’s candidacy on the grounds of the substitution of the initial placeholder, Kabir Masari, with Mr Shettima.
“To the men of the Nigerian Company 8 ECOMIG, you must not forget that you are ambassadors of our great nation.
“The right to freedom of expression is based on the right to establish or use a media outlet to exercise freedom of expression and on society’s right to have access to a free, independent, and pluralistic media that allows for the most diverse information.”
“Scaling up essential health services and coverage with key interventions has yielded results.
It is also printable or downloadable.
“I came down to Enugu from Nsukka this morning to the greatest surprise of my life, soldiers invaded my house and destroyed my properties.
Mr Massaquoi was a commander for the Revolutionary United Front (RUF), which aided the government of Charles Taylor, the Liberian President at the time to counter offenses from rebels from the Liberians United for Reconciliation and Democracy.
‘The implementation of MIDAS at the International Airport in Abuja was described by the IOM as “the largest deployment of MIDAS at any airport globally, to date, ” he said.
Before the new rates, the government taxed imported alcoholic beverages using valorem rates, levying of tax or customs duties proportionate to the estimated value of the goods or transaction concerned.
“From crop growing to flood reduction and from weather forecasting to post harvest, Israeli technology is making a difference and we are eager to share that with Nigeria.”
He said he had forgotten.
The report said Lagos State had the highest number of active voice subscribers within the period.
The figure represented a fall in production from the 1.2 million bpd recorded in March.
Mr Shehu revealed that the two leaders held a telephone conversation on Tuesday, with both leaders expressing satisfaction on security matters.
A 34-year-old woman, Nosimot Alalade, has been arraigned before an Abeokuta Magistrate Court in Isabo for allegedly pushing a staffer of the Ibadan Electricity Distribution Company (IBEDC), Silas Olaleye, down from the top of a ladder while on duty.
Mr Ani assured that anyone found culpable will be dealt with in line with the laws of the land.
President Muhammadu Buhari has arrived Madinah, Saudi Arabia to commence eight-day official visit to the Middle East country.
In line with the traditional support laid down, each of the returnees was given N100,000 and a bag courtesy of the Dangote Foundation while MTN supported with a SIM pack and call credit of N25,000 and 1.5 gigabytes of data.
“We look forward to a mutual cooperation for the future,’’ the letter said.
The examination is scheduled to hold from Tuesday, 25 April and 2 May.
“An order for an interim injunction restraining the 1st and 2nd respondents, their officers, agents and privies for any further breach of the applicant’s right to a fair hearing, pending the hearing and the determination of the originating motion on notice,” a part of the court order said.
While the Ogoshis were arrested sometime in February 2023 in the Ojo axis of Lagos, Ezekiel was picked up in Nasarawa by operatives of the EFCC.
Cross River street sweepers protest over four months’ unpaid stipends
According to him, the project will be on a Public Private Partnership arrangement.
“In the circumstance, the application to stay proceedings or adjourning this matter cannot be granted in the interest of justice and fairness.
Mr Lawan said the workers had contributed to finding solutions to the nation’s challenges and supported the efforts of the government targeted at meeting the yearnings of the people.
We woke up this morning and the entire coconut plantation that we did that has been fruiting already with fruits.
They are behaving as if they want to put spanners in the work for the incoming regime.
The group stated that effort must be made to avoid the 2015 rebellion that produced the leadership of the 8th Assembly.
Atiku and the governors in separate statements on Saturday said the governor developed Osun State “miraculously” within 100 days in office.
The Labour Party gained in Abia while Rabiu Kwankwaso’s NNPP took Kano, Northern Nigeria’s centre of commerce.
Meanwhile, it took India more than three decades for its fertility rate to reach that level.
Presidential Election Petition Court assures litigants of justice
In recent years, Nigeria has recorded a surge in pipeline vandalism and crude oil theft incidents in its oil-producing region, a development that worsened the nation’s revenue challenge.
“Our interventions and budgetary allocation to the army between 2020 and 2022 alone has been able to procure hundreds of Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) vehicles, troops carrying vehicles, utility vehicles, tanks and armoured personnel carriers to augment those earlier procured from 2017 to 2022.
He claimed the throne belonged to the Wurkanawa people and never a situation called for competition.
‘‘Annually, this administration has been setting new records when it comes to ICT contributions to GDP,’’ he said.
The embassy, in a statement on Sunday, said this was in the light of requests by both parents and students caught in the ongoing conflict in Sudan.
“He (Amaechi) had lost the gubernatorial seat, and they (Rivers State) felt he did not have anything for them and I advised him that it was better for him to appoint the candidate.
Ilaje LGA chairman urged residents of Ayetoro to accept resettlement from the area
Others were Governor Simon Lalong of Plateau, Governor Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom State, and the Deputy Governor of Nasarawa State, Musa Akabe.
“For low-skilled migration, these costs tend to be borne by the workers, thereby contravening the principles of fair recruitment.
He argued that the return of Mr Tinubu as the winner of the 2023 presidential election was undue, unlawful and invalid because Tinubu did not meet the constitutional requirements.
But we have a responsibility and mandate and we are not shy, we are very bold to do all those things that are good for our people.
2023 Hajj: 1,625 intending pilgrims from Jigawa deposit N4 billion to National Hajj Commission – Official
The meeting comes as the campaign for the speaker and deputy speaker of the 10th House continues.
He noted that the federal government cannot bully the states into domesticating the MRTF if they do not want to.
This was also made possible by the carelessness of these candidates who could not avail themselves of the Board’s provision of dual screens to monitor the course of their registration,” he said.
Before the elections, Ms Adichie publicly declared support for Peter Obi, the candidate of the Labour Party, and hoped he would win “as many polls had predicted.”
The anointed candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the senate presidency, Godswill Akpabio, says 69 out of the 109 senators-elect have endorsed him for the seat.
He stated that the public should get rid of three ideologies which includes, a general misconception that we (Nigeria) are rich, as a nation we have moved from systemic to endemic corruption and we have weak institutions and lack strong governance.
He stated that he could not understand the ‘greed’ of the university dons who, he alleged, recieved bribes at the expense of Nigerians.
But hours after the purported impeachment, Mr Orji convened an emergency plenary session at the assembly complex, where nine members, including himself, resolved to suspend the other nine members.
The recitation of the Qur’an and commentaries is a daily feature of the month-long Ramadan fasting and the 2023 session has a special meaning for Mr Buhari as it is the last he will witness as president.
This could be fast-tracked through strategic collaboration, implementation of sustainable initiatives, and public-private sector investment.
Less than 500 of them are blind.
Mr Gagdi, a member of the All Progressives Congress (APC) from Plateau State, disclosed this during an interactive session with journalists in Abuja on Wednesday.
‘“We will continue to do what we need to do to ensure that we keep the lives of our residents safe at all times,” Mr Sanwo-Olu said.
“You cannot lawfully bring into most countries in excess of $10,000 in cash.
No power can rob Tinubu, APC of Nigeria’s presidency – Umahi
“Therefore, I am using this channel to sound that advisory that the National Assembly will need money, will need more resources for capacity building for members of the National Assembly that are coming new, as well as those staff that we will be working with.
The minister also said the council approved the amendment of outdated labour laws to meet globally accepted standards prescribed by the International Labour Organisation.
She spoke during a luncheon in honour of beneficiaries of the recent cardiac mission organised by the Aisha Buhari Foundation on Wednesday at the State House, Abuja.
The winner, Bola Tinubu won in 12 states just like the second placed Atiku Abubakar who also won in 12 states.
‘‘One of the important aspects of the implementation plan is the development of the Startup Portal, which will serve as a platform that will drive the implementation of the NSA 2022 and collaboration between all stakeholders,’’ he said.
“Workers deserve the best and this administration will not let you down.
“The Council gave approval for the construction and rehabilitation of 11 roads totalling 737.242 kilometres in the sum of N1, 535, 154, 247, 234.48 under phase II of the NNPC tax credit scheme.
The quest for inspection of election materials between the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state and its main opposition party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) at the state INEC office on Monday snowballed from a protest into a clash between the two parties.
According to him, the alleged offences contravened the Criminal Laws of Lagos State, 2015
It has almost 40,000 vehicles in traffic every day.
“We are determined in the fight against any forms of violence meted out to women and girls in the state.”
They claimed that properties were vandalised and looted by the invading thugs of the government and that some workers in the state sustained various injuries as a result of the attack.
Mr Okoye, an assistant superintendent of police, said police operatives, led by Odeyeyiwa Oladimeji, a superintendent of police, on 24 April at about 5:30 p.m. arrested one of the suspects, Mathew Chukwuma, 48, at his hideout in Umuahia, the Abia State capital.
“These policies, together with investments in human capital and gender equality, contributed to China’s plummeting fertility rate in the 1970s and to the more gradual declines that followed in the 1980s and 1990s,” DESA said.
According to Oyo tradition and the Alaafin Chieftain Declaration, the law governing the process of succession, the Baba Iyaji would present the list of the princes to the Oyo Mesi whose head, the Bashorun, would then convene a decision after some screening.
The governor vows to cooperate with security agencies in the state to “smoke out the criminals and bring them to justice.”
He also provided his address and telephone number and dated the form.
Mr Gbillah did not specify the date the officials are to appear before the committee.
And we do not rule out the possibility of some police officers in some places appearing this way for stop-and-search and routine patrol (in dissonance with extant regulations),” he said.
It has nothing to do with government.
11:01am: Abubakar Mahmoud (SAN) announces appearance for INEC.
Speaking on Wednesday during the swearing-in of the state Chief Judge, Iyabo Yerima, Mr Makinde said he had communicated to the relevant quarters that the institutional framework for the emergence of a new Alaafin and Soun must be diligently followed.
It works in Osun, Ekiti, and Anambra, I really tried.
After the elections, mobs resorted to violence and invaded the homes of members of the PDP and killed their family members & burned down their houses.If those were not fascists, Peter’s guys are not.”
The committees’ chairpersons pledged their readiness to work for IPI Nigeria even as they solicit the support of all members.
The Assistant Inspector General of Police, Interpol, Garba Umar, who heads the Election Planning Monitoring and Evaluation team, had written to Mr Ari, inviting him for an ‘interview’ scheduled for Friday 5 May.
“The company’s upcoming AGM is a chance for them to celebrate their profits, but they should be prepared to face resistance from movements in France committed to blocking it as long as they continue their destructive path.”
“It provides two key services on the Request Management System which include Confirmation of Entry/Registration and Confirmation of Continuous Assessment Score (CASS),” he said.
Mr Ahmed called on those that were responsible for drug legislation and administration of anti-drug use to be more proactive in tackling the incidences of drug abuse in the country.
On the political front, Mr Tinubu thanked Mr Wike and the people of Rivers State for their support for him.
And if he’s looking for any reason to be hopeful that the ruling will also go his way, Mr Massaquoi can draw that from the witnesses, who defended him and denied his involvement in the second Liberian civil war.
“Immediately this letter was sent to the school bulldozers moved to the site, plans to build private homes have begun by withdrawing allotted plots and work is presently going on at that site 24 hours/7 days a week.”
This is very bad.
He added that injured persons were rescued to Lagos State Accident and Emergency Centre, Old toll gate, while the dead bodies were deposited at Ogun State University Teaching Hospital (OSUTH) mortuary in Sagamu, Ogun State.
She said the organisation worked with religious and community leaders and other resource persons to disseminate the correct information about COVID-19 to the community.
Mr Ogbonnaya, while admitting that the government had good policies regarding environmental protection, said it was not doing enough in enforcing the laws.
Represented by his Deputy, Kelechi Igwe, the governor said, “The exit package is also for local government workers, and that shall be added in their May salaries.
Onyekachi Agu was convicted of pouring acid on his former girlfriend, Aishat Adefarati, and her new lover, Monsuru Ahmed.
At the hearing, Boston’s top federal national security prosecutor, Nadine Pellegrini, requested that Mr Teixeira be detained pending trial and a detention hearing was set for Wednesday.
At Amaike Mbieri, unit 010 at Amankuta community civic hall, about 75 persons had voted at the unit by 9:45 a.m. which had a total of 798 registered voters.
Turkey Elections [PHOTO CREDIT: Aljazeera]ed lives and property.
The police last week said Ifasoji Ayangbesan offered a bribe of N1 million to officers to evade arrest after being caught with human body parts
“In the past few years, we have taken a number of measures to support Nigerian workers, which include the review and increase of the National Minimum Wage in 2019, Institutionalising its review automatically every five years in the Act.
Consequently, INEC declared the REC’s action null and void.
The former deputy governor said Mr Ntukekpo, rather than reach out to other members of the party for peace, went ahead and replaced party leaders at the ward and local government level with people from a political group that was formed to advance Mr Akpabio’s political interest.
I call on those aggrieved to pursue legitimate means of addressing their grievances.
Seplat Energy announced on 10 March that its chief executive officer, Samson Ezugworie, had taken Mr Brown’s place and would serve in an acting capacity.
NAN learnt that 16 of the 24-member house had allegedly signed for the speaker’s impeachment that took place at a guest house in Umuahia metropolis.
“There are I.6 or 1.7 million UTME candidates every year.
Peter Obi breaks silence after UK arrest in cryptic post on social media
Lawyers weighing on the court’s decision, said the struck down sections of the CAMA “are dead.”
The police spokesperson said the law allows a police officer to use “ minimal force” when justifiable.
It is a comprehensive database currently with over 15 million households (consisting of 61 million registered poor and vulnerable Nigerians) out of the total 17 million households in Nigeria living below the poverty line, based on findings from the National Living Standard Survey (NLSS 2019) – which noted that 40.1 per cent of Nigerians live below the poverty line.
“Nigeria deserves the very best electoral process.
‘‘The provisions of the Nigeria Startup Act 2022 represent an important step towards addressing these challenges and promoting the growth of a more vibrant and inclusive startup ecosystem in Nigeria.
FAAN explained that its directorates of airport operations and aviation security commenced stakeholders’ engagements and met with the residents of the Ajao axis and that all meetings were recorded and filed.
The reported adoption of the four aspirants leaves out the North-central zone in the zoning arrangement.
However, NAOC has denied the allegations but said it would not comment officially until the report is released.
Reps speaker aspirant “silently” meets 24 governors, LP governor-elect
Nigerian govt appeals for patience over Lagos-Ibadan expressway reconstruction
Mr Ararume had said he only got to know of his abrupt removal from office when another person was named as his replacement at the inauguration ceremony in January 2022.
But deepfake technology is incredibly advanced and can easily fool humans.
[PHOTO CREDIT: Official webpage of Court of Appeal]Mr Mohammed hails from Kano State, North-west Nigeria, and is the third ABU, Zaria graduate on the Presidential Election Petition Court panel.
Nigerians are looking up to you to reclaim their trust in you as the interpreters of the spirit of our laws,” he said.
Others were Ameopusenibo Fubara of Rivers State, Sheriff Oborevwori of Delta, Dauda Lawal of Zamfara and Caleb Mutfwang of Plateau.
“We believe that whistleblowers are vital for transparent society.
“Nonetheless, we truly commend you for seeing something and saying something.
Susan also described in detail an occasion when she was around 12 or 13 years old when her father raped her in the family home.
“All the newly approved Graduate School programmes will begin in the Fall 2023 semester.”
“it is highly inappropriate for a party to a
As of 30 March, 2023, the database contains comprehensive information for 61,593,733 poor individuals in 755 Local Government Areas so far covered across Nigeria.
Mr Wangara said the affected judge, Safiyanu Dabi, was indicted by the commission for receiving the bribe of N50,000.
Rejected votes – 1, 005
– the current status of the case against him and
Any attempt to use the same on another phone will deactivate the previous account created.
Mr Dogondaji said other personnel were also deployed for House of Assembly elections in Katsina and Jigawa, to prevent vote buying.
Wike says the former Kogi senator isn’t fit to be a governor.
INEC pledges credible supplementary polls in Kebbi, Adamawa, others
“But to our utter shock and consternation, we learnt that the position of the speaker of the House of Representatives has again also been zoned to the North-west while the position of Deputy Speaker is still being considered.
“I am here to appreciate them for their support, prayers and also making a point that elections are now over.
The party said that the court had no jurisdiction to adjudicate on the petitioners’ allegation predicated on ground (D) in paragraph 16 of the petition and the related paragraph 146 which lacks necessary facts or particulars as required by paragraph 4 (1)(d) of the rules of procedure for election petitions ( 1st Schedule to the electoral Act 2022.
I have not declared support for any of my colleagues who have declared their interest.
The Times, a British national daily, in a report published on Saturday, said this revelation raises concerns that Beijing could be indirectly funding terror in Africa’s largest economy.
BasheerLado, who addressed journalists on behalf of the former senators, said the decision to support Messrs Akpabio and Barau for the positions followed extensive consultation with concerned authorities.
She said the agency’s constitution reinforces that objective: “The health of all peoples is fundamental to the attainment of peace and security and is dependent upon the fullest cooperation of individuals and states.”
“Consequently, based on these recent incidents in Beji and its environs, Police operatives attached to FIB tactical squad arrested the two suspects based on a tip-off on March 31, 2023, ” he said.
To be declared the winner of Nigeria’s presidential election, a candidate must also score 25 per cent of votes cast in two-third of the 36 states and the FCT.
“We are here to present our letter of grievances to you and also tell this honourable house as a leaders, that we are not satisfied with the arrangement.
Subsequently, following a Supreme Court ruling, the CBN on 13 March directed commercial banks to dispense and receive the old N200, N500, and N1000 bank notes adding that the notes remain legal tender until 31 December.
“The LP presidential candidate in the February 25 presidential poll arrived at the Heathrow Airport in London from Nigeria on Good Friday, April 7, 2023, and joined the queue for the necessary Airport protocols when he was accosted by immigration officials who handed him a detention note and told him to step aside,” he said in the statement.
He later became the National Chairman of the Alliance for Democracy, AD and was made chieftain of the Yoruba political and social group, Afenifere and member of the Yoruba Council of Elders (YCE).
“We will conclude pending elections tomorrow and wait for court-ordered rerun elections if any,” Mr Okoye said.
House Speaker: Wase rejects Tinubu, APC’s decision, says ‘it’s my turn’
He alleged that it was the same REC who pressured the Returning Officer to manipulate the results of the contentious Fufore Local Government Area in the 18 March governorship election.
He, therefore, cautioned purveyors of fake news to desist from peddling falsehood in an attempt to mislead members of the public.
They’ll rig, we’ll protest, but it came to nothing.
Olubunmi Tunji-Ojo (APC, Ondo) is the Finance Secretary, Babajimi Benson (APC, Lagos) is in charge of Contact and Mobilisation, and Dennis Idahosa (APC, Edo) is in charge of monitoring and intelligence.
He allayed fears about assigning Azman Air aircraft which is said to have limited capacity to the state, saying arrangements are in place to ensure efficiency in the exercise.
“During the brief, we told you the number of people that have been kidnapped and we equally told you the efforts of the military to ensure those kidnapped victims are rescued.
“For us, it is one of our highest endorsements from the government,” said an elated Mr Eniang.
There was no way the machines could dispense cash, having been vandalised by the youths in the area.
The intention of this open letter is not to vilify, ridicule or incite and set the law of sedition in motion against Chimamandi.
In the other game that was earlier played, Rangers United picked a vital point against Dakkada in a game that ended 1-1.
Just commissioned 10 Firefighting trucks, total cost of over 12Bn Naira.
“The CP also identified professional misconduct on the part of some of the police officers involved in the case.
According to a presentation slide, that urgency needs to be quickly addressed to avert a partial or total shutdown of operations.
It is strongly frowned upon, by courts of law, as it has the potential of over-reaching the court, the other party (our
Infections in the current outbreak are from Clade II, or more specifically, Clade IIb.
The federal government has warned members of the National Association of Resident Doctors (NARD) to shelve their planned five-day warning strike.
Nigeria is quick to sign every conceivable treaty but such treaties are not enforceable in Nigeria and the Bill merely tries at addressing this lacuna by ensuring that the treaties are presented to the National Assembly for the purpose of enforcing the rights of citizens under those treaties in Nigeria.
“Today, I am pleased to specifically note that the situation has tremendously improved and I wish to also proudly highlight that we have made remarkable progress in the fight against insurgents, militants, oil bunkers, kidnappers and other criminal elements in the country,” he said.
Speakership Race: Gagdi meets Labour Party members-elect
The case has generated headlines worldwide, but the testimony from the eight-week trial in London sheds unprecedented light on apparent bribery and other questionable business practices by P&ID and its sister company, Industrial Consultants International Limited (ICIL).
At the concert, Davido and his team erected what could pass for the biggest stages in Africa for the musical event.
Aside from Messrs Abbas and Kalu, there are still nine other lawmakers that have declared interest in the race in the ruling party.
The police say no arrest has been made and they are not aware of any ransom paid before the release.
The fact that you are a team player?
“International agreements on carbon cap are not implemented and oil companies off the coast of Aiyetoro still flare their gas, not minding the environmental challenges.
Since 1974, millions of children have received life-saving vaccines and other child survival interventions,” She said.
Consignments of Tramadol, Rohypnol, Ecstasy (Designer drug) and Cannabis concealed in winter jackets and bottles of body cream have been intercepted by operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency, NDLEA, at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, MMIA, Ikeja Lagos.
Ms Brooks was thrown into the precarious situation after a decision of the US Court of Appeals, Fifth Circuit, affirmed the order of the Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA) Agency for her deportation.
Currently, several serving senators and senators-elect have declared their interest in the Senate presidency.
The spokesperson of the Nigerian Senate, Ajibola Basiru, says President Muhammadu Buhari’s request for approval to obtain a $800m loan from the World Bank less than three weeks to the end of his tenure will be thoroughly scrutinised by senators.
IPAC urges APC to zone Senate Presidency to South-east, South-south
These costs tend to increase with the duration of contracts, and they limit the ability of many low-skilled workers to benefit from migration opportunities.”
The group advocates the involvement of all stakeholders in the mental health field and those championing improved psychological well-being for Nigerians.
This was achieved through its appealing suspense elements.
Mr Zuckerberg disclosed this in a brief statement posted on his official Facebook page on Tuesday.
Mr Joseph said though the agency had been calling witnesses, he said the present witnesses cannot be exposed to the public.
Speaking further on the successes recorded by the PEBEC since its inception, the vice president recalled that in 2020, the PEBEC interventions were further expanded to include local governments through the Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC) which served as a pilot for interventions at the municipal level of government.
They then totally closed the approach of the Apapa-bound lane of the Marine Bridge located near Ijora Olopa, adjacent to the Lagos State Water Corporation.
He fled the country after an invasion of his home in Afara-Ukwu, near Umuahia, Abia State, by the Nigerian military in September of that year.
Several persons have been convicted of rape, especially teenagers, across the country
There was no indication in EFCC’s statement that the money was recovered from the convict or that he was ordered to make restitution.
The DG also encouraged healthcare professionals and patients to report adverse events or side effects related to the use of medicinal products through the use of the E-reporting platforms available on the NAFDAC website “http://www.nafdac.gov.ng/”
Chief Charles Luri Bala – CHAIRMAN
“All other aspirants who have not withdrawn from the race are free to participate in Friday’s direct primary election to be held across the state.
Dons Udeh, an illustrious son of Enugu State,” he said.
We at the PEBEC secretariat are grateful for the consistent chairing of multiple PEBEC meetings for many years, for listening to our issues and taking time to engage with us, even with junior members of the team.
Mr Braimah said this on Sunday in Abuja in a statement by Janet Peni, the AEPB deputy director of information.
It condemned the fighting and called for a ceasefire as it urged countries of the region and other concerned parties to support ongoing efforts to return the country to the transition process towards a constitutional order.
He said in order to achieve that, NNPC is poised to reliably deliver energy to its stakeholders, through efficient utilization of hydrocarbons and other new energy sources which Nigeria is blessed with.
“I am of the view that it is not a proposition that is borne out from a proper construction of Sections 125 to 129 of the constitution juxtaposed with the powers of the first defendant under the EFCC Act,” Mr Dimgba said.
The Nigeria report marks the fourth set of findings from the IBA’s 50:50 by 2030 – A Longitudinal Study into Gender Disparity in Law project, released in collaboration with the LexisNexis Rule of Law Foundation (LNROLF) on International Women’s Day 2021.
“However, we also learned about the behaviours and beliefs that influence some of the barriers and issues preventing people from accessing health care services and the COVID-19 vaccines during this time, such as cultural religious, and social norms, misinformation, disinformation, and just widespread hesitancy’,” he said.
NDDC chairperson declares agency’s $15 billion railway agreement with US firm ‘illegal’
Lasaco features in the selection this week for trading below its actual value at the moment.
Although the night can be characterised as the “Night of endorsements”, Mr Felix’s speech that night can, with hindsight, can be described as a “prophetic pronouncement ” that continues to dog the heels of President-elect Bola Tinubu.
Mr Ologunagba appealed to Nigerian workers to have strong confidence that the Nigerian judiciary will correct anomalies recorded in the election.
He also recommended that the NDDC should project itself positively through its choice of signature projects and interventions and open its accounts and project sites for public scrutiny.
The United States Agency for International Development-Momentum Country and Global Leadership Project (USAID-MCGL) handed over the shelter to the State Governor, David Umahi, in Abakaliki on Thursday.
Government demolishes 40 buildings in Akure
‘‘We must ensure that we put in place strong governance policies; We must uphold the highest standards of governance and transparency.
• Samaila Dahuwa Kila Bauchi North
Citing section 39 of the constitution, the defendants contended that the criminalisation of defamation was improper and antithetical to the constitutionally guaranteed rights of freedom of expression.
A video recently surfaced online showing the president-elect, the governor of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu and the Guinean ambassador to the African Union (AU) for Agenda 2063, Ousmane Yara, in a Guinea-government-owned helicopter.
“It is called encroachment and poaching respectively, and it will not be tolerated,” the commissioner said.
Mr Obahiagbon said that out of the 93, 729 voters, 83, 419 who were accredited, voted for candidates of their choice.
Infectious COVID-19 strains caused widespread outbreaks last year, but economies that were hit hard most notably China appear to be recovering, easing supply-chain disruptions.
Mr Kanu is being held at the State Security Service (SSS) detention facility in Abuja.
The UN, AU and IGAD – known as the Trilateral Mechanism – issued a statement appealing to the sides “to create necessary conditions during this period for the civilians to seek safe shelter, food and medical care.”
Whether Georgia will actually get the money seems doubtful.
The APC already has the majority in the Senate with 57 senators from the 102 already-declared constituencies but is yet to secure the majority in the House, as its current 162 members are short of the 181 seats required to form the majority.
“The petition was written to the IGP, so, it is at the domain of the Force Headquarters, so I won’t be able to talk about the case that my superiors are handling,” Mr Hundeyin responded when this newspaper contacted him on the matter on Saturday.
Mr Adejobi also said the IGP has directed the Gombe State Police Commissioner, Etim Equa, to proceed to take charge.
He added that the suspect claimed he took the two deceased children to hospital at different times before they died.
Indeed, the Presidential spokesman’s futile attempts to twist events and history in Benue State is unfortunate and reprehensible.
The spokesperson stated that “The injured victims were taken to the General Hospital in Ota for medical attention.
The villagers said the terrorists in large numbers and heavily armed, moved to the area with many herds of cattle.
Following the altercation with the yet-to-be identified officer, the singer turned himself in at the Ikeja police command in Lagos in company of his lawyer and family representative.
Police arrest officers who assaulted motorist in Rivers
The spokesperson of the FRSC in Ogun, Florence Okpe, told journalists on Wednesday that nine vehicles were involved in the crash, including the Dangote truck, a tipper, a yellow bus, an armoured tank, a Toyota Rav4 and three motorcycles.
PREMIUM TIMES reported that Atiku said in the same document that the president-elect was burdened by identity and drugs scandals.
Mrs Ekwunife in her lead debate said the delay in missions and renewal of Nigeria international passport by the Nigerian Immigration Service nationwide was resulting in untold hardships for Nigerians, who need to travel out of the country or return to the country.
However, the US did not name the Nigerians affected by the latest visa ban although some Nigerians including controversial Lagos bus transport chief, Musiliu Akinsanya, popularly known as MC Oluomo, were caught on video threatening potential voters.
Airman suspected of leaking secret US documents hit with federal charges
He commiserated with the family of the deceased and prayed to God to grant them “the inner strength” to bear the irreparable loss.
According to the petition filed on 22 September 2022, the majority shareholders/directors ran Solel Boneh aground by surreptitiously diverting its assets and businesses to other companies which they exclusively control.
Such an optimism can especially be drawn from all the witnesses who testified in the second phase of the trial.
While I acknowledge the high level of insecurity across the state and indeed, Nigeria, this is one murder too many,” Mr Nweke Jr. said.
Nobody should associate or give leverage to any persons — at least we are aware of the demonstrations asking for that (Interim Government),” he said.
Haruna Simon Tsammani, one of the judges sitting at Nigeria’s Presidential Election Petition.
“I have analysed these things to you that even the deaf and dumb agree that there is injustice and then you are talking about party supremacy.
If this veto is overturned, that will not happen again.
“The container conveying the 518 bales of used clothes was intercepted on the Benin-Okada Road.
Senate President – South-South – Senator Godswill Akpabio (Akwa-Ibom).
Speaking at the event, the NGO’s team lead in Abuja, Benjamin Ibhazukor, said the programme is organised to empower young persons in the community.
Speaking on the attacks at the plenary, Mr Moro said many lives and properties of his people have been displaced as a result of the clashes.
“It is significant to note that the elections were so credible that it threw up some upsets in our otherwise settled demography.
He asked the former governor’s family to ensure that his good legacies were sustained just as he prayed to God to grant him eternal rest.
INEC, in a statement by its National Commissioner, Information & Voter Education, Festus Okoye, described its Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in Adamawa, Yunusa Ari, as a “usurper” for declaring the result.
The Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Idris Wase, on Friday, officially joined the speakership race.
Germany had also planned to evacuate its nationals from Sudan but did not follow through because of the security situation in the country, according to the German news agency, DPA.
He said if the money is given to him, he’ll release all of them.
The NBA president recalled that Mr Wali, who served as the 26th NBA president between 2012 and 2014, “has served this nation in varying capacities, contributing immensely to the growth of legal practice and in the promotion and entrenchment of the rule of law.”
However, in the short clip, the officer did not retaliate.
They have alleged it was during that time that Mr Massaquoi committed some heinous crimes, including arresting, torturing, locking up civilians and burning them alive.
The memo reads in part: “The Vice-Chancellor, Ekiti State University, Ado-Ekiti, Professor Edward Olanipekun, on behalf of the university Senate, has approved the suspension of academic activities on campus for two (2) weeks with effect from today, 11th April.
“That is why my principal, a fair-minded individual, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu insists the number three citizen must come from the South/south (Christian).
He said the supplementary election will also hold at 14 House of Assembly seats for Ajingi, Danbatta, Dawakin Tofa, Gwarzo, Gezawa, Makoda, Takai, Ungogo, Warawa, Gabasawa, Tudun Wada, Gaya, Wudil and Garko.
The applicant also asked for any further order as the court may deem fit and proper to make in the circumstances of the case.
Mr Oyebanji, while speaking on the wake of the Supreme Court victory, restated his respect for Mr Oni, who is a former governor of the state and former chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC).
No fewer than three persons were confirmed dead while two others sustained varying degrees of injuries in an accident involving a Sino truck and a Toyota car at Saapade on the Lagos-Ibadan expressway on Saturday.
The ruling party has the delicate task of spreading the leadership positions among the six geo-political zones, dealing with the personal ambition of members and still factoring religion into the equation.
However, Milan experienced another unfortunate circumstance in the 10th minute.
The memo was sent to the President-elect, Bola Tinubu, for his consideration.
Mr Carson, according to the minister, co-led the National Democratic Institute (NDI) and International Republican Institute (IRI) International Election Observation Mission to Nigeria.
He said the meeting also approved the reprimand of six officers, one Superintendent and five Assistant Superintendents.
He was brought back to Prayagraj in March from Gujarat to appear in a local court as it announced his sentencing in a kidnapping case.
Moving the motion, Mr Idem said the interim government is unknown to the laws of Nigeria.
It is not clear if the tribunals have responded to the request.
The winners are two sitting members of the House of Representatives
So, we were convinced that those provisions of CAMA from 839 to 848 infringe on the provisions of freedom of thought, conscience and religion as well as the freedom enshrined in sections 38 and 40 of the constitution which guarantees peaceful assembly.
NAN reports INEC had declared Mr Tinubu as the winner of the 25 February presidential election after securing the majority of votes cast at the poll.
The new board was initially scheduled to be inaugurated by President Buhari on 24 November 2021, but was suspended indefinitely without any reason offered on the eve of the scheduled event.
Far more alarming was the grotesque fantasy of the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court disguised as a wheelchair, zooming off in space to a secret meeting with other parties of the conflict.
Police arrest officials of Navy, Nigerian Correctional Service for alleged robbery
“In the circumstance, since the application has bearing on the rest and the defendants have not deemed it fit to respond to the motion for over two years, there is nothing to show that the interest of justice will be achieved by an adjournment of this matter.
He was the first black president of the World Methodist Council.
The fact that intelligence relationship is so immature is a concern but is also an opportunity.
A magistrate court in Yaba has remanded Afrobeat star, Seun Kuti, in police custody for 48 hours for allegedly assaulting a police officer.
Mrs Izonfuo was formerly head of civil service in Bayelsa.
He promised to keep an open-door policy.
Spare me a sphere that feels not his influence
10:47am: AA’s national chairman, Adekunle Omo-Aje, announces appearance in court.
“Twenty-four years since the return to democracy, the Nigerian people have rightly come to expect more from their parliamentary representatives.
The total ways and means loan amounts to N23,719,703,774,306.90 while the duration of the bond is 40 years at the rate of nine per cent per annum.
FILE: IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu arrives Federal High Court in Abuja in continuation of his trial.
Bearing in mind that Section 285 (10) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended) provides that pre-election cases must be concluded within 180 days from the date of filing of the suit, the CJ drafted judges from their substantive bases to help complete all pre-election cases in other judicial divisions that had a glut of these cases ahead of the 2023 general elections.
He said the recommendations from the hearing will help in the passage of the Whistleblower bill currently before the National Assembly.
Mr Buhari noted that Sudan deserved peace given all that it had gone through in the past.
“Up till today, I don’t believe that what is happening the president-elect is aware of it or it is his own idea.
Mr Otedola made the revelation in a statement that marks his first public intervention in the recent battle for the soul of Transcorp.
The council chairman said a multi-million Naira project design embarked on by the federal government to tame the ocean incursion has been completed, but what remained was the movement of equipment to the high sea.
Technology would redeem democracy.
He said Mrs Jonah and her husband live in Iragbiji and were returning home from a church vigil in Osogbo when they ran into the ambush of the kidnappers.
He said affected candidates are to print their slips on or before Thursday, so as to know the time and venue of their examination.
To the party, it is because most of you that have spoken have been grateful for the party to have given you the platform to be here today.
“My big concern is that younger people are losing interest in all of this and it won’t be the same in the future.” (Reuters/NAN)
I did not know that they (my family) voted for Peter Obi, but in the other election, they voted for APC because of what we’ve done in the state,” he said.
“The responses we have received from the Accountant-Genaral office which shows that the honourable minister of finance has been approving payments to whistleblowers in percentages at variance with what the policy says they should be paid,” he said.
He maintained that the government embarked on regular public education on the danger inherent in over-speeding by vehicle owners across the state.
The local subsidiary of Netherlands-based dairy maker Royal FrieslandCampina NV incurred a record net loss of N10.3 billion for the first quarter of the year.
Opposition to the selection was vehement and vigorous.
While agreeing with an earlier judgment that Nigeria practices “co-operative federalism”, Mr Dimgba said the commission was empowered to investigate and prosecute offenders for both the federal and state economic and financial crimes under the “co-operative federalism” practiced in Nigeria.
“People find it easy to spend a fortune to buy Apple wristwatches and so on but hardly do we buy books.
The bond has a moratorium of three years.
Victor Osimhen, Samuel Chukwueze, Kelechi Iheanacho and Taiwo Awoniyi, among many others, have become key members of the Super Eagles now, but they all cut their teeth with the Golden Eaglets.
“You go to court and obtain a court order and you want to enforce that order by yourself.
Mr Obi, who was the presidential candidate of the Labour Party, came third in the election, but he is praying the court to nullify the polls owing to alleged malpractices by Nigeria’s electoral commission, INEC.
A Labour Party candidate for the Edo State House of Assembly elections has petitioned the state election petition tribunal detailing how the last 2023 constituency election was allegedly rigged to deprive him of victory.
Mr Abbas, incumbent Chairman House Committee on Land Transport, representing Zaria Federal constituency of Kaduna State, said he promised to carry everyone along irrespective of differences in religion, tribe and political affiliations.
IPOB is leading the agitation for an independent state of Biafra, which it wants to be carved out from the South-east and some parts of the South-south.
“When independent media is weakened, it impacts all of society and threatens democracy.
Mr Adegoroye said the installation would strengthen security at the railway stations.
Following the ongoing war between Russia and Ukraine, and the resulting energy crisis in Europe and the UK due to disrupted gas supplies from Russia, African gas resources have been touted as perfect replacements for the troubled countries.
He added that “We have looked at the functions of the Attorney General’s office and we’ve not seen any statutory powers provided for the attorney general by the constitution to determine how Nigeria’s money should be spent.
Mr Ihedioha served as the governor state under the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) between May 2019 and January 2020, when the Supreme Court nullified their election and declared Hope Uzodinma of the All Progressives Congress as the governor of the state.
‘‘This is a difficult reality for the opposition parties,’’ he said.
Mr Kaswe then prayed for the withdrawal of the criminal charge against the defendants.
“My biggest take home from the training is how to put a women-angle to whatever I am reporting, backed by domestic laws in Nigeria,” she said, adding that “Overall I left there feeling better knowing that I have a network of strong, brilliant women I can collaborate with.”.
“As such, we need to allow the apex court, their deliberations and come up with their deliberations and come up with their decisions, and we must accept their decisions as final in order to maintain the sanctity of the judiciary,” Mr Gowon, 88, said.
In 1979, he got elected into the Oyo State House of Assembly as the representative of Ifedapo Constituency on the platform of the Chief Obafemi Awolowo-led Unity Party of Nigeria (UPN).
Despite the burgeoning debt profile of the country, which rose astronomically under the Buhari administration due to excessive borrowing, the outgoing President is seeking another loan of USD 800m Work Bank.
His phone number was unreachable for over an hour.
He has however consistently pointed out that the security agencies are grossly underfunded and deserve to be better equipped and motivated to tackle insecurity in the country.
He appealed to the state government to initiate measure to ameliorate the sufferings of workers and pensioners.
The police spokesperson in the state, Bright Edafe, disclosed this in a statement on Wednesday.
Gross earnings were up by 18 per cent at N209.1 billion, non-interest income contributing two-fifths of that, according to the audited financial report published on Wednesday.
The total number of the arrested suspects was eight, according to the statement, but the police spokesperson when contacted by PREMIUM TIMES on Monday, insisted that a total of nine, not eight, were arrested so far.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that in the charge marked FHC/ABJ/CR/256/2019, EFCC alleged that Mr Maina used fictitious names to open and operate various bank accounts.
He said the troops between 21 April and 25 April engaged in a fierce firefight and neutralised 14 terrorists, including a notorious terrorist kingpin.
The book was voted as one of the Best Books of 2022 on economics by the Financial Times.
Mr Tinubu’s legal team is also expected to file his reply to the petition and others filed by Atiku and other petitioners.
“We have to completely keep Atiku out of this.
“Barrister Ari, who was arrested by the Police Election Planning, Monitoring, and Evaluation Team in Abuja on Tuesday 2nd May, 2023, is currently in police custody and is being grilled to ascertain the motives and motivations behind his alleged improper actions during the supplementary elections in Adamawa state,” the force spokesperson said.
Mr Danbazau said Mr Jibrin will help sustain the party’s presence in the North-west region, especially in Kano and other states that the opposition parties have occupied.
The bureau also said all certified Next-of-Kin (NOK) are to come with the original and photocopy of the beneficiary’s death certificate of the ex-staff, original and photocopy of the letter of administration and evidence of estate account, and BVN of the Next of Kin.
“We are raising the alarm for the general public to be aware of the situation in Zamfara and the likelihood of using the police to clampdown on our party leaders and, most importantly, to disrupt the Saturday rerun.
In March 2023, it said the total deductions for the cost of collection was N31.355 billion and total deductions for transfers, refunds, and consultancy fees were N126.567 billion.
He sued Mr Buhari and the NNPCL at the Federal High Court in Abuja on 12 September to challenge his removal about eight months earlier.
The ruling party is yet to take a decision on the zoning of the principal offices of the two chambers.
Speaking of the IPOB leader’s state of health in SSS custody, Mr Ozekhome said, “I expressed my fear regarding Kanu’s state of health which I described as life threatening.”
Mr Olorunfemi was driving in Akure on the morning of 10 April when his car hit some motorcycles, killing two persons.
A former governor of Ekiti State, Ayodele Fayose, a known ally of Mr Wike, was also suspended from the party.
Master Edwin-Isotu, a student of Graduate High School, Port Harcourt, will represent the state in the national competition, scheduled to hold from July 26 to July 29 in Rivers State.
While in Saudi, Mr Buhari successfully performed Umrah rituals, amid tight security, upon his arrival at the Grand Mosque in Makkah from Madinah on Thursday morning.
It is unimaginable that someone who did not participate or vote in an election would make categorical statements about an election she did not witness.
Mr Tinubu and his son, Seyi, refused to respond to enquiries by Bloomberg on the matter.
The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) declared Mr Tinubu and his party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) the winner of the 25 February poll.
Nigerian singer and songwriter Tiwa Savage is set to take the stage at the highly anticipated King Charles III coronation concert.
At the same time, it said detailed plans of how funds are saved from subsidy removal need to be extensively discussed and disseminated to the general public to increase trust as social capital.
The agency did not give details.
Current members represent a cocktail of innovative thinkers in every field and profession, including more than two hundred and fifty Nobel and Pulitzer Prize winners.
He further urged the senate president to ensure that the concession of the steel company and the National Iron Ore company, Itakpe, be subjected to thorough legislative processes and contributions from major stakeholders such as the Manufacturers of Association of Nigeria (MAN).
Mr Gbajabiamila, in a tweet on Thursday, debunked the claims in the report, noting that he has informed all the aspirants that they must wait for the decision of the APC on zoning.
We are loyal to our country first, loyal to our party, and loyal to our people.
On entering the UK from Nigeria on 12 September 2018, RK was arrested.
Ekiti political rivals, Gov Oyebanji, Oni in crucial meeting in Ifaki
The beneficiaries, meanwhile, would receive “riches beyond the dreams of avarice,” as Nigeria’s lawyer put it.
“That is what we are working on.
A statement by the bank said he was selected by executive directors of the bank for a five-year term beginning 2 June.
This barbaric and unprovoked attack occurred during a visit to the Independent National Electoral Commission’s office by Mr Tonye Cole, APC Governorship Candidate, Dr. Innocent Barikor, Deputy Governorship Candidate, Mr Emeka Beke, State Chairman of the Party and 3 other party officials to obtain the Certified True Copies (CTC) of vital documents in the March 18 Governorship and House of Assembly elections.
But when it comes to the Senate President’s seat, the North-central has occupied it more than any other region – David Mark from Benue State served eight years, and Bukola Saraki served four years.
Nigerian govt spends N1m annually on each inmate – Interior Minister
And they are respected, especially with regards to their personal and human rights,” he said.
Citing section 221 of the ACJA, the government argued that the Jummai Sankey-led five-member panel of the Court of Appeal failed to give legal effect to the law which “stops courts from entertaining preliminary objections to charges at an interlocutory stage.”
Mr Adebayo said one passenger died while officials were rushing the victims to the hospital for treatment.
He is the founder and coordinator of the popular Uyo Book Club.
On his part, the President of the Potato Farmers Association, Daniel Okafor, during his presentation on potatoes as an alternative feed for livestock, urged researchers to train farmers to know more about extension services.
The elections are holding in areas where they were previously suspended due to reasons including violence and the ‘margin of lead principle’.
The programme is part of efforts to deepen regional inclusion and identification of citizens of member states across the region.
As the demand for African gas increases in Europe, new research conducted by an international non-governmental organisation – Stakeholder Democracy Network (SDN) – has identified possible socio-economic challenges Nigeria may face in its plans to expand gas production.
The historic and solemn event dates back to the time of the 74-year-old’s predecessor William the Conqueror in 1066.
By this recent posturing, everyone is now aware that the perpetrators have the backing and sympathy of the Federal Government.
"As part of the grand design, they are circulating a fake doctored audio call.
The lecturer said forensic accounting would assist the courts in reaching conclusions on corruption cases without delay.
Mrs Buhari called on the government to subsidise the high cost of cardiac interventions and spend more on personnel training and the procurement of equipment.
“The operatives engaged the armed men in a gun battle, rescued one of their victims and arrested three of the gang members suspected to be members of the Eastern Security Network (ESN), the militant wing of the outlawed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB),” he said.
As a judge, Mr Ajibola had his way with words and was also a maverick of idioms and proverbs.
The aspirant, Yusuf Gagdi, said the silent approach is part of the strategy by his team to woo the governors.
They filed the suit alongside 48 federal and state legislators from the state.
She added that humanitarian groups are making efforts to distribute food, water and medicals, while all efforts are being put in place to get the warring parties to ceasefire.
I also think that President Muhammadu Buhari missed the chance in high rising because Nigerians felt that he mean well and credible election.
Being a hopeless romantic woman, she longs for a man’s love.
In a statement on Saturday by its National Coordinator, Emmanuel Onwubiko, HURIWA condemned the killing of the officers and the couple during the attack, the Punch newspaper reported.
“…Tyre bursts occur now and then in the industry and have nothing to do with the airline’s safety standards,” the statement said.
In his response at the end of the meeting, Mr Osinbajo expressed his appreciation for the gesture.
“And the same thing some technocrats and some security personnel, so it is widespread.”
PREMIUM TIMES reported earlier that before the commencement of the day’s sitting, Mr Apapa had an altercation with Akin Osuntokun, director general of Peter Obi’s presidential campaign council.
She explained that after the criminals had one or more videos or pictures, they threatened to publish that content, or they threatened violence, to get the victim to produce more images.
Atiku said Mr Tinubu’s reply to the petition has been “contradictory, evasive, speculative and vague.”
He said: “We are aware that zoning is not done in a vacuum, so we highly recommend Senator Godswill Akpabio for the position of Senate President and Senator Barau Jibrin as Deputy Senate President respectively”.
Salim Kaoje, the chairman of the parents of the abducted children, confirmed the release of the pupils to PREMIUM TIMES in a text message.
Funny enough, it’s just for stealing an android phone,” he explained.
Relying on the data released by a coalition of civil society groups in Nigeria, Mr Mohammed said the reported death of between 13 and 28 people during the just concluded elections was the lowest since the 1964/65 elections.
Verdict: The claim by President Buhari that Nigeria was placed in seventh position in the ranking in 2015 was inaccurate.
“They also include CP Armament FCH Abuja, Mohammed Dalijan; Force Provost Marshal, CP Dan-Mamman Shawulu; CP Servicom, R&P, FHQ Abuja, Clement Robert; CP X-Squad FCID Abuja, Rhoda Olofu; CP Anti-Human Trafficking, Onah Sunny, and CP PAP Eastern, Yetunde Longe, and 19 others.
It added that the radar can operate 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, with high availability, minimal preventive maintenance and low logistical and operational costs throughout its life cycle.
But I still want to believe it’s a typo error.”
The event is holding against the backdrop of the global conversation about climate change and transition away from fossil fuel, Nigeria’s historic economic underperformance and current economic challenges, and the transition to a new administration later in the month.
There is no reason for that excuse of a technical glitch.
Nigerians in the country are advised to remain indoors and contact the Embassy on any of the following numbers: +249 90 765 0702, +234 803 698 1824, +249 90 132 5359, +249 92 440 1217,” Mrs Omayuli said.
“Since the incident, his wife has not been seen and her telephone line has not been connecting.
Nigeria’s Defence College provost backs call for drug test on public officials
In the suit number FHC/ABJ/CS/583/2023 filed last Friday at the Federal High Court, Abuja, SERAP is asking the court for “an order of mandamus compelling INEC to seek the appointment of independent counsel to investigate allegations of electoral offences against state governors and their deputies during the 2023 elections.”
According to Mr Ibrahim, to facilitate the expeditious determination of civil cases and matters before the court, the Federal High Court (Civil Procedure) Rules, 2000 was enacted by Justice Tsoho pursuant to Section 254 of the 1999 Constitution (as amended).
“We not only have well-manned clinics and well-stocked pharmacies, the inmates at the custodial centres now have access to excellent medical care beyond the centres,” he said.
Ekiti has recorded incidents of kidnapping, especially being fueled by the influx of criminal elements into communities on the boundaries with Kogi and Kwara states.
Senate Presidency: Aggrieved aspirants visit, petition APC as Adamu promises review of zoning of principal positions
Implicit in the results of the presidential election are the lines (mainly ethnic and religious) along which Nigerians are now divided.
The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) says no plans to phase out the redesigned Naira notes from circulation.
The app is updated with most of Twitter’s current features.
In terms of spread, the choice had two major issues – lack of geographical and religious spread.
They noted that they will mobilise support for Mr Betara.
The court granted both requests.
Stephen Idoko, a programme manager at IFA, said although INEC promised to deploy PWDs as ad hoc staff, observation shows that the commission was short of the five per cent mandatory requirement.
Mr Chinda, one of the coordinators of the coalition, is a close associate of Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State, who already pledged to work with the APC in the election of the leadership of the 10th Assembly.
“When the formal workforce, the public servants, are cared for, the informal sector fares better.
Mrs Dabiri-Erewa is a former member of the House of Representatives where she represented Ikorodu constituency, Lagos State.
It is just ancillary to the discourse of Nigeria’s education system.
His election has been declared inconclusive and he is facing murder charges over the death of three persons during the elections.
On his part, FMARD’s permanent secretary, Ernest Umakhihe, who was represented by the ministry’s Director of Fisheries and Development, Ime Umoia, said Nigeria has a reliable and sustainable course of action for feeding its livestock and poultry to achieve food security for animal sources, generate employment along the animal feed value chain and reduce importation of animal feed materials and equipment into the country.
I think it is a good show of corporate social responsibility.
He said that the corps must continue to demonstrate commitment aimed at making the society safe and peaceful for citizens to live and stay .
Barely two days after announcing a Visa ban on Nigerians who allegedly undermined the last general elections, Mr Blinken, on Wednesday, called Mr Tinubu to assure him of the US commitment to “further strengthening the U.S.-Nigeria relationship with the incoming administration.”
My appearance at Ado Doguwa’s declaration will go a long way to prove to Nigerians, as he (Doguwa) said, I am a mother, this is the same way that I have been meeting other co-contestants.
“We know that despite the absence of name of our party on the ballot papers we still managed to win election in some states.
The Ministry of Defence (MoD), on Friday, presented cheques totalling N2.6 billion (N2,597,744,287) to families of 804 deceased members of the Armed Forces.
discharged those duties with merit and integrity,” he wrote.
To help protect as many people as possible from life-threatening illness, we’re working to develop and distribute vaccines throughout the world.
In terms of the length of their legal profession, she comes behind both Messrs Tsammani and Adah.
“We are not happy with their deaths, but happy they died in service to the nation, and we believe they have done the country proud.
He said his administration was determined to improve workers’ welfare through its partnership with the Federal Housing Authority in accessing renovation loans for 2,500 civil servants in the state.
“This can no longer continue because it is like it has become a convenient excuse and we must get our state back on track,” he said.
May God rest your soul in peace.”
“The Board would be releasing the results of candidates, who have taken the examination so far on Tuesday, 2nd May,” Mr Benjamin said in a statement.
“We are here for the independence of the parliament.
A maiden report by the policy think-tank titled “Urgent Policy Actions on Fiscal, Monetary and Trade Fronts” said as Nigeria prepares to usher in a new administration, the state of the economy remains a key point of interest.
Mr Okoye said INEC’s attention had been drawn to posters and statements being circulated by a group accusing it of refusing to obey the Supreme Court judgment purportedly recognising one Edozie Njoku as the authentic national chairman of APGA.
He will put all of us side by side, and nobody will be a loser.
“The association of the colours with heroic deeds of the units emblazoned on them has led to the custom of regarding the colours with veneration,” he added.
Its originator, Ayinde Barrister, stuck to the Yoruba traditions that guided the genre’s creation.
The event was held at Transcorp Hotel in Abuja.
According to a witness, the kidnappers suddenly emerged from the bush and opened fire on a commercial bus with an intention to kidnap.
The convict, who said he has no fixed address, had pleaded guilty to a count charge of constituting a nuisance after injunction to discontinue.
Similarly, Airports Council International Africa (ACI Africa) President, Emmanuel Chavez, noted that the future of the country’s aviation sector is bright and that Nigeria should leverage on its population size to attain success in the industry.
Salim Ka’,one, the Chairman of Committee for the 11 abducted FGC, Binrin Yauri, made this known to reporters in Birnin Kebbi on Saturday.
The former lawmakers say the country needs a man with serene humility, character and fear of God in discharging the duties associated with the office of the Speaker.
Mr Umar’s tenure at the INTERPOL ends in November 2024, and his new appointment as Senior Security Adviser takes effect from 16 May, 2023.
Some reports suggested that the number of people killed was much more than the figure given by the police.
He also rejoiced with President Muhammadu Buhari, President-elect, Bola Tinubu, and Vice-President-elect, Kashim Shettima.
The minority caucuses in the House of Representatives have commenced the process of alliance to present a unified front ahead of the inauguration of the 10th session of the House in June.
These actions justify Biafrans’ quest for a referendum to decide our economic and political future as an independent nation.
The policy think tank said the use of a strategic communication team to engage the public and other critical stakeholders on the benefits and costs of removing the subsidy would be required for the public to buy into the policy measure.
It alleged that Mr Tinubu lied on oath by refusing to disclose Guinean citizenship in his Form EC9 submitted to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for the 2023 presidential election.
You have shown that you are a mother, a woman shouldn’t come and appear as a combatant.
It is an aberration of democratic practice for the oversight committees of the National Assembly to depend on the executive agencies under their purview to fund oversight activities,” Mr Gagdi said.
The NASSP supports the Government of Nigeria’s poverty alleviation efforts by expanding the access of poor households to targeted social assistance, which could provide them with a basic social safety net to withstand social and economic shocks.
He said there were five petitions and the first three petitions would be heard on Monday while the last two would be heard on Tuesday.
My Assets Declaration is there for all to see.
Oil pumped through EACOP pipeline is projected to emit about 34.3 million tonnes of carbon dioxide into the air every year, says Just Share, a South African shareholder union.
The IFPIM aims for the fund to support low and middle-income countries while forging a sustainable future for global media ecosystems.
While the traditionally dominant parties are expected to perform well in the outstanding supplementary elections to elect the remaining eight senators and 33 representatives, the incoming national assembly already differs significantly from what has existed so far in the Fourth Republic.
“If I were the owner of the school, I would have taken action.
He went on to win the seat for two consecutive terms and his fourth win came as a lawmaker from the regional Samajwadi Party (SP).
Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and former President Olusegun Obasanjo were among the dignitaries who paid their last respect to former Attorney-General of the Federation, Bola Ajibola, who died early Sunday and was buried later in the day.
Others are Tajudeen Abbas (APC, Kaduna), Aminu Jaji (APC, Zamfara), Ben Kalu (APC, Abia), and Miriam Onuoha (APC, Imo).
She said from experience, “products that go into the developed market are different from those that come to Africa, including Nigeria”, noting that “trade is a trade and should not have that type of territorial differentiation.”
The AGF said the plaintiff failed to demonstrate any “special grievance or immediate danger or injury he has suffered or will suffer above the general public.”
The forum presents an opportunity for robust multi-stakeholder interactive sessions to explore business opportunities and multi-faceted problems bedevilling Nigeria’s animal feed sector.
There is no better way to do it.
I pray and hope that this is not your last outing in public service”, he said.
However, “petitioners fail to exhaust their administrative remedies as to an issue if they do not first raise the issue before the BIA, either on direct appeal or in a motion to reopen.”
Neither Mr Emefiele nor the CBN has announced that the former has sought such study leave despite reports in the media.
‘Why Amaechi moved against me’ – Hadiza Bala Usman opens up in new book
The Tour de France is a prestigious cycling event that takes place every summer in France.
He further stated that the suspect was apprehended following a painstaking intelligence-based investigation embarked upon by detectives from Obalende Divisional Headquarters, which led them to his hideout.
He demanded that the Senate should appeal to the UK Government considering the relationship between the two countries to temper justice on Mr Ekweremadu.
The witness stated further those who sustained injuries were taken to a nearby hospital, while the lifeless body of the driver was left at the scene.
Other dignitaries who attended the event alongside Mr Gowon, were the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, Chairman of the Nigerian Governors Forum, Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State and Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State.
The court ruled that the party should conduct a fresh primary.
Others include the commissioner of police and all the members of the caretaker committee.
Group asks EFCC, ICPC to probe concession of Ajaokuta Steel Plant
Results from about 95 polling units, representing about 5.87 per cent, were yet to be uploaded within the period under review.
He urged Nigerians to continue to provide prompt and credible information on the activities of terrorists and other criminals in their areas.
He went where peace was.
Conferred with Honourary Degree of Doctor of Agriculture (D.Agric) of the University of Agriculture Abeokuta (UNAAB) on 27 January 2004.
Calling for Mr Wali’s release, Mr Maikyau described his predecessor as “a known philanthropist who has helped in the development of his community in no small measure”.
The prosecution counsel said the defendants made inciting and intimidating statements to the church congregation that could cause alarm and breach of peace.
The Owelle of Awkuzu, Peter Emenaka, revealed that Mr Anikweze was not crowned as the community’s traditional ruler because he refused to perform “necessary traditional ceremonies” on the grounds that the ceremonies were “fetish.”
According to him Mr Peter Obi of the Labour Party was declared the overall winner of the election in Abia, Anambra, Delta, Ebonyi, Edo, Enugu, Imo, Plateau and Lagos states, while Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso of the New Nigeria People’s Party was declared winner of the election in Kano State.
South Africa on Tuesday said it has decided to exit the International Criminal Court due to a “matter of unfair treatment.”
A statement issued by Mrs Ahmed’s Special Adviser on Media & Communications, Yunusa Abdullahi, made this known in a statement Friday.
PREMIUM TIMES reported that the Nigerian politician and the two others were found guilty of organ trafficking but their sentencing was deferred to today.
“A total of 65 persons have been arrested.
He said he was sorry about the situation in Sudan but also happy to have the evacuees back in Nigeria safe.
The land was said to have been illegally sold by land grabbers to the owners of the buildings.
“As you can see, I am leading the campaign for Akpabio because he is the president’s preferred candidate and we have to push for the country and the party above any other interest.”
The governor recently picked the governorship ticket of his party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), ahead of the election.
“I was there to seek their support and all the executives of the body gave their commitments that they were going to give me support for this contest.
This is my appeal and why I have decided to speak out as a patriotic Nigerian and concerned governor.
If the CAC insists on enforcing any of the nullified provisions, those organisations have the right to commence an action in court.
Mr Gowon extolled the deceased jurist’s virtues of integrity and hard work.
It did not disclose the details of what the two men discussed.
“This is the second time the command had received similar cheques from the inspector-general of police and it was presented to the beneficiaries,” Mr Echeng said.
“I wish to enjoin all Nigerian Citizens to pray Almighty Allah to continue to guide and lead our leaders aright in the journey of nation building,” he said.
Buhari, King of Jordan in telephone conversation over global issues
Gains depend on migrants’ skills, gender, age, and language ability,” the report said.
The important thing is that the spirit of the party must be kept alive.
He stated that the challenges with the evacuation are caused by “interagency disagreements arising from overlapping mandates and the absence of established operational guidelines for such circumstances.”
But we intend to do what is the world’s best practice.We recognize the fact that anywhere you go in the world, the party with the majority produces who will be the presiding officer.
Labour Party National Chairman, Julius Abure, on Thursday, alleged that thugs escorted by policemen believed to be working for the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) broke into the national headquarters of the party (LP) in Abuja.
The seminar, facilitated by Ndon Asian, honourary special adviser to Governor Udom Emmanuel on judiciary matters, was attended by the spokesperson to Governor Emmanuel, Ekerete Udoh.
Speaking in the same vein, APC’s lead lawyer, Lateef Fagbemi, a SAN, aligned with INEC’s position concerning access to electoral documents.
he Federal High Court in Lagos has ordered the interim forfeiture of a N725 million worth Banana Island, Lagos property linked to Patrick Akpobolokemi, a former Director-General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA).
Labour Party replies Buhari, restates claim it won 2023 presidential election
The petitioners named INEC, Mr Tinubu and the APC as respondents.
It is not known if they have contacted his family at the time of this report.
The group says it would send a protest letter to the National Assembly and other relevant agencies to express their feelings over the matter.
He should frown on any attempt by any person seeking to damage the good job he has done.
“Let it also be on record that none of the houses built on this land has the required land documents to prove their ownership, no C of O and neither do they have land use permit.
“For now, people can speculate on anything but Ohanaeze has a constitution and there are high expectations that things will work out well after the Imeobi meeting on Sunday,” he said.
• Onyesoh Allwell Heacho Rivers East
“I’m Leo, UBA virtual assistant,” the page handler responded, listing several ways he could be of help.
Compounding the situation further is the disregard for HD’s submission on the Peace Accord.
The NBA had urged the judiciary to allow live broadcast of the court hearings of election petitions, particularly the presidential election cases.
He said the agency also undertook to ensure that Mr Mamu had access to his daily medication for the management of his pre-existing health condition as well as ensuring access to adequate tests and treatments when necessary, during the trial.
He said Yerima Adamu of ADC scored 652 votes, while Jauro Ishaku of LP scored 471 votes.
The Governorship Candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kogi, Usman Ododo, on Friday, received President Muhammadu Buhari’s blessings as the party’s flagbearer in the 11 November election.
Speaking during a virtual media roundtable on Thursday, a professor of Hematology and Blood Transfusion at the University of Lagos, Sulaimon Akanmu, said cases of haemophilia recorded in the region are quite low because people are hardly diagnosed with it.
However, this dynamic may be short-lived given the propensity of Nigerian politicians to defect to more dominant parties.
Mr Ododo, while briefing State House Correspondents after he was presented to the President by Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi, said he was committed to building on the unparalleled developmental strides of the governor.
Our future depends on how you arrive at your much awaited judgement.
On his plans for the country, Mr Tinubu said he had been consulting and planning, with a view to putting together a strong team, so he could hit the ground running once he assumed office on 29 May.
But the defence lawyer, N. Carter, justified the sentence imposed by the trial judge.
The police spokesperson in Enugu State, Daniel Ndukwe, did not respond to calls and a WhatsApp message seeking comments from him.
Mr Njoku said he neither mentioned anything about the late Ikpeazu’s daughter nor made any such comments attributed to him by the prosecutor.
In November 2021, the federal government announced its plan to remove the fuel subsidy and replace it with a monthly N5,000 transport grant for poor Nigerians.
The former vice-president described the deceased as a woman of virtue, who was committed to service to humanity.
‘‘The Steering Committee is to superintend the preparation of the Nigeria Agenda 2050 and the National Development Plan (NDP), 2021-2025 to succeed the Nigeria Vision 20: 2020 and Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP), 2017-2020, respectively.
The Independent National Electoral Commission will conduct supplementary governorship elections in Adamawa and Kebbi States, five senatorial districts, and 31 federal and 58 state assembly constituencies across the federation.
“This decision aligns with the party’s commitment to fairness, equity, and inclusiveness in all of its leadership selection processes,” he said.
“He supported my primaries.
The EFCC, which is under some supervisory control of the AGF, hardly opposes such move even when it is uncomfortable with it.
“ Later in the day, thunderstorms are expected over Imo, Abia, Edo, Ebonyi, Enugu, Cross River, Awka Ibom, Delta, Rivers and Bayelsa.
Although the ruling party has yet to decide on the zoning of the offices, the APC Governors have recommended the zoning of the Speaker to either North-west or North-central.
“My wife drove from the hospital around 2:00 a.m. and two female soldiers beat her up on her arrival, dragging her to go out of the compound,” he lamented.
She noted that the project was funded by USAID.
He went on to dismiss the suit.
We, therefore, advise all residents of Imo State to stock up on necessities because we are prepared for a marathon struggle,” they added.
The deceased, who was said to have returned to the university for a repeat of courses he failed, was alleged to have stolen a phone at the Obafemi Awolowo Hall of Residence on the campus but rather than reporting him to the university management, a crowd of students reportedly lynched him.
“Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu will be sworn in as President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria on May 29, Interim government is a needless distraction.
The Petroleum Industry Act provides legal, governance, regulatory and fiscal framework for the Nigerian petroleum industry, the development of host communities, and related matters.
He said: “We need to investigate.
The national voter turnout was 29 per cent; no election had a lower participation rate in the six decades of Nigeria’s independence.
But the government hasn’t been able to harmonise the exchange rates to boost investor confidence.
“We are now going into the nitty-gritty of the matter and there have been allegations that we are just witch-hunting them,” he said.
“A defendant who is in the custody of the state or agency of the state like the complainant/respondent (SSS) must understand that his medical care is at the expense of the state and must be reasonable in his demands,” the judge said.
“However, our great party, the All Progressives Congress, has reviewed the modalities for the conduct of the gubernatorial primary election in Kogi State and has therefore resorted to adopt the direct mode of primary election instead of the indirect mode, as earlier communicated.
Mr Ibeanusi said Nigeria had a better system, saying, “What we want to show the world is that the system actually exists.
A primary school teacher attached to the Local Education Authority in Gusau local government said he would stop going to his place of work by Friday if his outstanding salaries are not paid.
It translates to more than a billion daily searches and 1.2 trillion searches per year worldwide.
“Further to this is the provocative resort by the APC and its leaders to threaten Nigerians with treason for speaking out against the manipulations of our democratic processes by the APC”
“This will be processed after a debt sustainability analysis has been conducted by the DMO leading to the issuance of debt instrument and promissory notes in the same value to be approved by the National Assembly,’’ Akande said.
Mr Yahaya, who spoke on the topic, “Climate Smart Agriculture and Food Security”, added that when the practices are properly applied, farmers would witness great improvement in their yields as well as their income.
I’m not a Muslim, so this is like a stone that kills more than 10 birds at a time.
Of the 28 states, the ruling party won in 16 states; the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) retained 10 states while New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) and Labour Party respectively won one state each.
But Degi Biobarakuma (PDP-Bayelsa) urged the Senate to consider the 2023 budget as the budget extimates of the commission was presented before the national assembly on time.
He, however, said the affected vehicles had been taken off the road “to avoid impeding the free flow of traffic and handed over to Policemen from Gowon Estate Divisional Police Headquarters for further investigations.”
Grothe Tobias of the Federal Foreign Office of the German Embassy, security sector represented the German Government at the Stakeholders Meeting.
“It is also possible that the groups were given some inducement to endorse Akpabio.
“The army with the support of the Federal Government will continue to do everything possible to surmount the various security challenges confronting the country until Nigeria becomes safe for all.
“The action of the REC is a usurpation of the power of the Returning Officer.
“The other two corpses were retrieved by their relatives at the scene of the accident,” he said.
“We all agreed among us that whatever comes to North-central goes to Sen. Sani Musa because we are a united family.”
Some of the voters, who spoke with NAN attributed the voter apathy to doubts over the transparent conduct of the elections.
“What stories do you tell your children and the people around you on how we have conserved our planet earth?
Peter Obi, who are you?
Mr Obi is praying the court to nullify the poll over allegations of non-compliance with the Electoral Act by Nigeria’s electoral commission, INEC.
She said antibiotics are very useful in treating infections, however, they are fast losing their usefulness because they are becoming resistant to infections.
President Muhammadu Buhari and the incoming President, Bola Tinubu Friday morning exchanged Eid greetings in a phone call to mark the end of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan.
Specifically, Mr Uzoukwu said electoral documents concerning the polls in Rivers and Sokoto States have been inaccessible from INEC.
The injured were taken to Wesley Guild Hospital, Ilesa, while the corpses of the deceased were deposited at the same hospital morgue.
Alex Otti clinched Abia – the only state won by Labour Party – by defeating the PDP.
He said the troops neutralised 25 terrorists, arrested 30 informants, six terrorist logistics suppliers, and two gunrunners and rescued four kidnap victims
They are also charged with conspiracy to distribute child pornography, which borders on sending images to minors, their families and friends, as well as conspiracy to commit stalking through the Internet.
So withdrawal from the ICC should not be a real option.
According to him, “Out of all the Federal executive bodies, only this functions according to the Constitution and this is because of the way the VP chairs the Council.
“The court, having noted that the Court of Appeal has announced the death of this case in this jurisdiction.
He cannot suspend National Officers without reference to Baba.”
“I read about the zoning arrangement in the papers like other people.
PREMIUM TIMES reported that a UK court Friday sentenced Mr Ekweremadu, to nine years and eight months in prison.
He added that “I think now that all of these hurdles have been surmounted.
“I saw that, and we were against him for what he did.
Former President Olusegun Obasanjo has led a team of Nigerian businessmen and government officials to Kinshasa for the Democratic Republic of Congo/Nigeria Business Council Summit.
Deepfake technology, which has progressed steadily for nearly a decade, has the ability to create talking digital puppets.
Mr Umahi made the disclosure during the test-run of flight operations at the airport christened Muhammadu Buhari International Airport, at Onueke on Thursday.
The drug allegation is part of the grounds on which Atiku anchored his petition.
Cletus Ukpong, PREMIUM TIMES’ regional editor for South-east and South-south, who was among the resource persons at the seminar, took the reporters on the value of specialisation in journalism.
The director said that AEPB simply went to court to obtain the court order to seal the market.
This was followed by Kaduna where 1.54 million people voted.
Furthermore, Mr Alake questioned Mrs Adichie’s knowledge of Nigeria’s electoral laws and the role of technology in the last election.
Speaking on Arise television on Tuesday – a few hours after Mr Wike’s media chat – Mr Melaye said: “When I ran for governorship in 2019, Mr Wike was my biggest sponsor, my biggest supporter to the tune of hundreds of thousands of dollars.
“First, to be able to fix the infrastructural needs of the country, we need to be spending about 100 billion dollars annually as a country, including private spending on infrastructure.
Although the president-elect and Mr Wike are members of different political parties, the duo have been close since the build up to the presidential election.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that FHC, which was established on 13 April 1973, was formerly known as Federal Revenue Court.
“Just to provide an update on what is happening with regard to the evacuation of Nigerians in Sudan,” Mr Onyeama said.
Godswill Akpabio predicts that the numbers of his supporters in the Senate would increase to 85 or 86 by the time of the election in June.
The jackets had POLICE boldly written behind them.
McNichols shed 8.9 per cent to end trade at N0.72.
Mr Alabi, who represents Egbeda/Ona-Ara federal constituency of Oyo State said he is “not sure” if the ruling APC “can afford” to zone the Senate President to a Muslim aspirant.
In the Sudanese case, though some of those who defend Nigerians schooling in this centuries-old country argue that historical interactions between Nigeria and Sudan should be a pull to consider the country for study, the fact remains that University of Khartoum, which is Sudan’s best university, is ranked 2310th in universities of the world.
“NNPC is also making progress on the planned Nigeria-Morocco and the Trans-Sahara Gas Pipelines that will connect West African countries to deliver natural gas to the international markets,” he said.
Mr Ohadoma’s arrest became a topical issue on Twitter when his younger sister, Chiduebube, raised alarm on the microblogging site that the brother was being molested by some police officers.
“Becoming more agile: with the market and customer demand fluctuating more, and to serve emerging and growth markets more effectively, we are expanding the use of vendors.
The document went further to state that on 17 January 2019, Mr Ponle received a message from Individual B informing him that “The money is in”.
Any new arrivals will be entering a situation marked by soaring humanitarian needs and chronic underfunding.
The suspect is currently in police custody,” the tweet read in parts.
Sometimes, I will communicate what I see on the front[lines].”
It will be up to you to decide how you use that gift which no amount of influence or power can buy.
The night was also packed with performances from British rapper Tion Wayne who performed ‘Who’s True’ and Starboy Terri who performed his hit song ‘Ojoro’.
In a separate letter, Mr Buhari urged the Senate to approve the re-appointment of Abdul Abubakar as non-Executive Director of the CBN for a second and final term.
“What is critical to us is what happens when we leave.
Linkage Assurance led losers, declining by 9.4 per cent to close at N0.48.
There can be no peace when those who live in glass houses, have mastered the art of throwing stones to those they have kept in the rain and under the scorching sun.
Shortly after the accident, hoodlums in the area set the BRT bus ablaze.
He said he would remain committed to the workers’ affairs until he leaves office on 29 May.
The Peace Accord, as envisioned by HD with the wish for robust funding, should be all-encompassing to accommodate the other seven tracks of diplomacy, as conceptualised in 1991.
The police investigated Mr Ntukekpo and recommended he should be charged for alleged forgery.
Their burrowing creates breeding habitats and shelter for other animals.
We have officers watching, and these agents know they are being watched.
“Additionally, you must endeavour to adhere to the Rules of Engagement of the Mission and respect the host nation’s cultural and religious sensitivities.
The federal government on Wednesday in Abuja approved the implementation of the National Blockchain Policy for Nigeria.
The judge, Nnamdi Dimgba, ruled that the EFCC has constitutional powers to investigate any act of economic and financial crime in any part of the country, according to a statement by the commission’s spokesperson, Wilson Uwujaren on Wednesday.
“Unconsciously, people in public office start being entitled to that and think it is right to buy a birthday present.
In addition, leakages from taxes collected by non-state actors need to be eliminated,” it said.
He spoke against the background of the leadership tussle rocking his party, which gave rise to the emergence of two presidential candidates.
By contrast, there were expressions of “burden of leadership” “responsibility”, “apology”, “pleading”, “formal dissociation from the untenable”, all the way to the “tragic ascendancy of ethnic cleavage”, especially under such ironic, untenable circumstances.
“The crossover reminds us that the number of older persons is growing rapidly,” Wilmoth said.
The Federal High Court in Abuja on Tuesday dismissed a suit filed by the All Progressives Congress (APC) seeking the removal of Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State for defecting from the party to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in August 2018.
“Worse still, out of seven states, the APC presidential candidate won only in three states of the North-west losing significant numbers in swing states like Kaduna, Kano, Kebbi and Katsina while in the North-central, he won overwhelmingly in its swing states of Niger, Benue and Kogi.
He also said when the bill has been finally approved, the leader of the corps will be addressed as national commandant.
The road to national transformation is not easy, which is why I will use my vast “Legislative Experience and Patriotic Zeal” for all representations within the House of Representatives.
In a memo titled: “Management Decision on Movement of Vehicles in the University,” and signed by the university’s registrar, Kayode Ogunleye, on Wednesday noted that the ban is to curtail motor traffic accidents on campus.
• Diket Plang – Plateau Central
Mr Buhari, a former military head of state, says Nigerians will defend democracy against real or perceived threats.
Mr Osinbajo recently described him as a man of good virtues, recalling how the late judge sold almost all he had to establish Crescent University in Abeokuta.
We chartered a tricycle from Warri to Sapele for the operation.
It is also reported that the 2021 results from the Phase-IIb trial reported that R21/Matrix-M demonstrated high-level efficacy of 77 per cent.
In his ruling, however, Mr Oweibo held that, given Section 308 of the Constitution, which provides immunity to a serving governor from any civil or criminal prosecution, the court lacked jurisdiction to adjudicate on the matter.
He pointed out that security was everybody’s responsibility.
“We noted that when this position was made public, stakeholders across the country accepted it with equanimity and calmness due to its inclusion of other zones not yet captured in the top hierarchy of governance in the next administration.
Buhari leaves for Saudi Arabia
He stated that there has been no reliable data on the inflow into the fund since the Act came into being in 2003.
Of the 37 sub-national units in the country, 13 of them were won by a third force candidate and they included the two most populous states in the country – Kano and Lagos.
• Mohammed Ali Ndume – Borno South
The colours of several units in the army had either been damaged or worn out since 2007.
So, we didn’t stop anybody from doing it.”
Mr Ekwo, instead, ordered the APC candidate’s counsel to address the court on the issue of jurisdiction before hearing the substantive motion.
LP – 12, 789
Communities in Gwadabawa Local Government Area of Sokoto State North-west Nigeria are living in fear of reprisal attacks after residents attacked Fulani settlers in the area.
Mr Bragg said the defendant (Trump) repeatedly made false statements on New York business records and also caused others to make false statements.
Among its prayers, the plaintiff urged the court to declare that the stated provisions of the Code, its amendments and sanctions/fines, breached Nigeria’s obligation under international laws and treaties to which it is a signatory.
“The problem we have is the use of third parties because no matter how much reform you put in, you will always see a learned and civilised person using a third party to process their application.
”The opposition’s insinuation that the failure to immediately upload the result of the
The family source said funeral prayer of the late minister would hold at 2.00pm Wednesday at his residence on Maiduguri road in Kano metropolis.
Gboyega Rhodes-Vivour of LP informed the tribunal that Mr Sanwo-Olu evaded the service of the petition on him by the court’s bailiff.
“The tricycle, the knife they use to scare their victims are in custody alongside the suspect while effort is on to arrest the other fleeing members of the gang,” he said.
He said the partnership with BMGF ramped up demand for PHC services in Niger and Gombe states.
Hardworking Nigerians like the technician need to be appreciated, a user named @jerrybest7 said.
If he attacked with a weapon, it is robbery.”
So, the nullified sections of the law gave discretionary powers to the commission that were subject to abuse.
“Also, the newly elected governors of our party, on behalf of my colleagues and governors in the forum, welcome you to this event and into the forum.
Last month, Mr Wike, while hosting Deputy Speaker Idris Wase in Port Harcourt, said he will back the ruling party at the national level.
The exact location and date of the incident is, however, unclear for now.
The director said though the global vaccination coverage figures are looking up, “but they still mask huge inequalities that we cannot afford to ignore.
There is no question about that.
“An Order, disqualifying any of the 1st to 6th Respondents from seeking for the nomination of, and being nominated by the 7th Respondent as its Governorship Candidate for the Kogi Governorship Election, scheduled for Nov. 11, ” they further prayed.
The governors under the umbrella of Progressive Governors Forum (PGF) had earlier recommended that the Senate President should be zoned to either South-east or South-south regions.
It emphasised that at no time throughout the campaign did Mr Obi ever describe the 2023 election as a religious war.
She said although she understands why her parents were convicted, she disagrees with it albeit from a “very biased perspective as their daughter”.
Moreover, post-trauma counselling and psycho-social treatment were announced again.
He had vowed not to return the phone until he gets his payment from Mr Ahamefula who runs a local brothel and is said to be connected to the police authorities in the area.
Mr Kanu, the leader of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), had filed an appeal at the Supreme Court against the recent Court of Appeal ruling halting his release from custody.
Bello said the conceptualization and realization of the FCT was historic and deserved commendation, reminding President Buhari of his role as part of the military Recce Team for the capital in the 70s.
Stanbic IBTC Stockbrokers Limited, in its own letter, informed Africa Prudential the energy magnate procured shares adding up to 228.4 units through the firm.
Why the rush to consummate a concession deal during this transitional period and not leave it for the incoming administration which stands inaugurated on the 29th of May 2023,” he said.
But 80 per cent of the 83 responding countries reported at least one bottleneck to scaling up access to essential COVID-19 tools (e.g.
It added that a “high-powered” Igbo delegation would be sent to Lagos State to meet some leaders of the state so as to establish a lasting cordial and peaceful relationship between the Igbo and the Yoruba in the state.
Police say the two suspects would be charged to court for murder and arson
It is therefore a mistake to think that violence occurs because Nigerians do not love themselves due to differences of ethnicity or religion.
He added that the singular act contributed to the defeat of the then-ruling party, PDP, in 2015.
The returning officer explained that the total votes cast stood at 800,560, out of which valid votes were 781,478, while 19,082 votes were rejected.
Ahead of the 2023 World Haemophilia Day (WHD), health experts in the African region are advocating proper diagnosis and management of the disease within the region.
Ms Okolo assured that FIDA would make sure that the suspect was brought to justice to serve as a deterrent to other irresponsible fathers out there.
• Akintunde Yunus Abiodun – Oyo Central
This is such a glass-shattering watershed for the women of Nigeria!
He, therefore, held that the plaintiff in the case had locus to institute the suit.
If the government loses its challenge, it would owe P&ID close to a third of its foreign exchange reserves.
“I was informed that while the deceased was on his way to the town’s main market, he saw a crowd of people with some police officers having a heated discussion over a piece of land.
The reason for their meeting might not be unconnected with the race for the Senate Presidency.
But speaking on the development on Tuesday, Mr Okeke-Ogene said a decision had not yet been taken on Mr Iwuanyanwu, Vanguard newspaper reported.
PDP wins Zamfara Central senate seat, Gusau/Tsafe federal constituency in rerun elections
Mr Agbo said that Mr Abure remains the authentic Chairman of the Labour Party in Nigeria and there was nobody except the National Executive Committee that could remove him.
Antimicrobials – including antibiotics, antivirals, antifungals, and antiparasitics – are medicines used to prevent and treat infections in humans, animals, and plants.
The victim, Augustine Ukegbu, was killed at his community, Umuoshike Ogbor, in Aboh Mbaise Local Government Area of the state.
Troops eliminate 30 terrorists, apprehend 48
Some members of the PDP had on Tuesday also organised a parley with several minority parties in a bid to form an alliance to “checkmate” the ruling party.
The vice-chancellor advised the staff of the institution to be proactive and cover their lectures as the management would not accept any excuse in case of disruption of the university’s academic programmes.
Mr Adejobi said a police officer is expected to be “above board, above suspicion, to be angels to the people.”
A Mareva injunction is a court order which freezes the assets of a defendant pending the outcome of litigation.
PREMIUM TIMES had reported the four other petitions that the other petitioners filed in the court here, here, here, and here.
“Nowhere did she suggest to the BIA that her credibility should have been assessed under the pre-REAL ID Act framework, and she concedes as much on appeal,” the court said.
Also, former Attorney-General of the Federation, Mohammed Adoke, commended the author for doing a great job by sharing her side of the story.
President Nana Akufo-Addo of Ghana is expected to chair the public presentation and launching of two new books on the legacies of President Muhammadu Buhari on Friday, 19 May, at the State House Conference Center, Abuja.
INEC Returning Officer, Muhammad Bayawa, declared the result in Sokoto on Sunday.
Reps panel summons Malami, Ahmed over alleged payment of $200m to “consultants”, threatens arrest
She said there was a need to acknowledge the role of females as multipliers of society and the first point of contact in learning.
On the issue of jurisdiction, the applicant stated that the properties listed were in Abuja, Kogi and UAE, while the personality involved is based in Lokoja.
The woman said she had been at the bank since 5 a.m.
For Mr Adenuga, the third Nigerian on the African billionaire’s list, Forbes noted that he dropped from $7.3 billion in 2022 to $6.1 billion.
The commission’s spokesperson, Mr Okoye, did not also respond to calls and a text message on the matter sent by PREMIUM TIMES Wednesday night.
At Monday’s proceedings, the panel will be inaugurated while the template for adjudicating on the various petitions will be reeled out.
10th Speakership: Reps new members-elect commence tour of South-east to canvass support for Betara
Mr Ekweremadu was deputy to Bukola Saraki then of the APC.
The governor said upon leaving office in the next 22 days, he would take a break but be available to provide advice, where needed, on how to move the country forward.
Labour Party Crisis: State chairpersons conclude deliberations, maintain support for Abure
The Old Students’ Association of Federal Government Colleges (FGC) in Nigeria has accused the Kaduna State Government of illegally encroaching on the school’s land and called on appropriate authorities to intervene urgently.
The federal government has described the opposition attacking President Muhammadu Buhari over his recent comment on the 2023 presidential elections as “shameless sore losers”.
Presenting a report to journalists, Project Coordinator of Mobilising Voters for Election (MOVE) of the NHRC, Hilary Ogbonna, also noted the level of human rights violations associated with the elections.
“We call on @inecnigeria to nullify the illegal declaration, suspend the REC for Adamawa state and take urgent actions to protect the integrity of the process.”
He assured them that the party will act.
How did we not see it coming?
It sought an order declaring all actions, functions and duties performed by Tambuwal from 1 August 2018 to May 28, 2019 as unconstitutional, unlawful, illegal, null and void.
Experts discuss tackling erosion in Anambra
Others are neglected tropical diseases; noncommunicable diseases; management of mental, neurological and substance use disorders; care for older people; and traditional and/or complementary care.
On 28 February, Returning Officer of the initial 25 February senatorial election, Ahmad Galadima declared the election as inconclusive.
The respondents’ lawyers – Wole Olanipekun, SAN, representing Mr Tinubu, and Abubakar Mahmoud, SAN, representing the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), said they had no objection against the application for the withdrawal of the petition.
I am optimistic that the supreme court will do the rightful and that people will get justice, she said.
His former aide, Mr Ashinze (1st defendant) was standing trial alongside an Austrian, Wolfgang Reinl; Edidiong Idiong and Sagir Mohammed listed as 2nd to 4th defendants respectively.
The party argued that Mr Obi’s nomination as LP’s presidential candidate breached Section 77(3) of the Electoral Act.
As part of efforts to support children and families affected by flood, the SOS Children’s Villages is implementing the Humanitarian Action for Flood-Affected Families Project
Mr Okowa assured that the next administration of the Oborevwori-led government would no doubt listen to the labour demands and address the issues therein.
Mr Kehinde said that the 36 state chairpersons as members of the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the party met to review recent developments in the party.
“While those who registered through the Headquarters, Bwari, Kuje and Abuja Municipal Area Councils would have their orientation exercise on April 30 at the Permanent Hajj Camp located at Bassan Jiwa, close to the Nnamdi Azikwe International Airport, Abuja.
It marked the unveiling of five members of the court panel to the public.
The president-elect is on a two-day visit to the state to inaugurate projects executed by the Nyesom Wike administration at the invitation of the outgoing governor
Mr Buhari, who campaigned in 2015 on tackling insecurity, is set to leave office after eight years as president.
You are an exemplary role model, a father figure, a God-fearing man, a fine gentleman.”
The vice president was received at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport by top Kenyan government officials and the Nigerian High Commissioner to Kenya.
“We refer to case number FHC/L/251C/16, FRN vs NENADI ESTHER USMAN & 3 ORS.
This exclusion is hard to justify other than that the legislature must be resisted and kept at bay.
Mr Jonathan described Easter as a period to reflect on the gift of salvation and the power of faith and hope in surmounting earthly challenges.
Again, Senator Anyim deftly overrode the veto.
”It is important to note whether the court has the jurisdiction to handle the matter.
He admonished young people to look at the mistakes of the past and avoid them.
Some armed police officers have been filmed using a machete to smack two unidentified people in Imo State, South-east Nigeria.
Facing N2.5 billion corruption case, Ogun Assembly Speaker wins reelection
Mr Ibrahim commended the partners and investors who have made the project a reality.
An election has been conducted and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) that is mandated has announced a president elect.
Ekpenyong: Well, the intentions of the CAMA were good, but the lawmakers adopted the Charity Act of the United Kingdom, which is completely at variance with our peculiar business climate.
Reports said the entrance of the airport terminals was also affected as vehicular movement was disrupted.
He also argued that Mr Nnamdi had been on administrative bail for over a month and had not flouted the bail.conditions.
In an emailed statement to CPJ, an Interpol representative said the organization had no information about Gobeze in its databases and noted that it was not empowered to arrest or extradite individuals.
How Tinubu won presidential election – American Observer
A panel of the ECOWAS Court led by Dupe Atoki had heard a case filed in 2020 on a similar matter on Monday (8 September), a statement by the court’s information unit stated Wednesday.
“It is incongruous for student doctors to embark on strike when consultants training them were already negotiating with the Federal Government,” he said
NAFDAC warns consumers against use of recalled male performance enhancement capsule
He said that as an expert in economics, he was aware of inflation in our economy which had made workers in serious pain given what they earn as salaries.
Mr Aregbesola added that the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration had, to a large extent, addressed the problem of inmates contracting diseases in custodial centres.
Speaking at an event in Yenagoa, the Bayelsa state capital, Mr Igbifa who described the railway project idea as an answered prayer, said it would boost commerce in the region.
Nigeria needs $12 billion to carry out the cleanup of oil spills in Bayelsa State, South-south Nigeria, a new report said.
So, the election in Ikono/Ini Federal Constituency has been cancelled.
He said the implementation of CRISP will be phased across the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), adding that the funding “will come from the government, supported by development partners, philanthropists, and other stakeholders.”
“I say this because the amount cannot afford a bag of 50kg rice, let alone other domestic problems staring families in the face on a daily basis,” he said.
Two days after the 18 March governorship election, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) declared Mr Sanwo-Olu of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as the winner of the poll.
“The hand-outs, like billions of naira disbursed in the past, will do nothing to reduce the unemployment rate projected to reach 40.6 percent in 2023, or raise the per capita income of Nigerians from $2100, which has dropped 48.5 percent within the last 8 Years,” he said.
There have been violent attacks in some communities in Plateau State leading to the killings of the residents in the recent past.
We are liaising with our embassy in Egypt as well so we have been able to overcome these challenges and we have started the process which we are very happy about.
“These injections have protected people of all ages, from newborns to seniors.”
So if the government feels that to safeguard public health this restriction should be put then we have not violated anybody’s human rights,” he said.
Our relationship with civil servants has been cordial.
Section 2 (1) of the Act states, “A public institution shall ensure that it records and keeps information about all its activities, operations and business”.
The splendour of British monarchy and the rich tradition came to the fore again on Saturday and the world literally came to a standstill as you are crowned the new British King, with the appellation of King Charles III.
“…the aircraft experienced two tire bursts on landing in Abuja, and the emergency response team quickly responded at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport,” a statement by the airline noted.
The police have arraigned the suspects for murder.
The meeting was presided over by the suspended deputy speaker.
“Your book will definitely help in fighting impunity.
The Senate on Tuesday announced a new financier for the Kaduna-Kano railway modernisation project.
Atiku scored 368 votes in Obio/Akpor, while Mr Kwankwaso scored 161 votes.
“The party has directed that the said suspension and all related actions in the matter be, and are hereby, set aside pending further review and decision of the party’s National Working Committee (NWC) on the matter.
Premium Times launches reader survey
The event set off what would eventually be the fate awaiting Mr Apapa on Wednesday.
APC dissociates self from Tinubu’s visit to Rivers
The Akwa Ibom State Government in 2018 proscribed 32 cult groups as part of the measures to tackle the rising cult violence in the state.
The moderator of the meeting, Dachung Bagos (PDP, Plateau), informed the lawmakers that the combined strength of the opposition is more than the ruling party.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) gathered that the police operatives arrested a cell phone dealer, labelled him as a fraudster and forcefully collected N100,000 from him.
Reacting to the judgement, Mr Olufemi similarly expressed bewilderment that the magistrate ignored vital evidence that exonerated him and his colleague.
The contested provisions of the code empower the National Broadcasting Commission (NBC) to impose fines on any erring Nigerian broadcast station.
PREMIUM TIMES had reported that the minister’s time in office was marked by a poor power supply that has seen slight improvement since his removal.
“This has resulted in a significant increase in the number of people accessing primary healthcare services, particularly in Niger and Gombe States.”
“(They should also send) passport data pages and contact details (phone number and email) to enable the embassy and the Wafeden to start working on them before the portal for international transfers opens.”
The dollar exchange rate closed at N463.25 as of Thursday at the official foreign exchange market, controlled by the government, compared to N740.65 at the parallel market, according to @naira_rates.
“It is instructive to state that from 2015, when I was sworn in as the President and the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces, Federal Republic of Nigeria, I facilitated the recruitment of over 60,000 soldiers for the Nigerian army aside thousands of commissioned officers from the Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna.
Transcripts of the Academic Years/Level Completed (attachment)
Bello Kumo, the chairman of the joint task, in his opening remarks before the meeting moved into closed doors, said it has yet to adopt any of the aspirants.
Read the statement by APC NWC in full:
He added that the commissioner directed that disciplinary action be taken against the DPO and the operatives involved in the extortion.
“The family has accepted to pay the sum of N10 million as ransom,” the witness said.
He appealed his conviction and sentence, which the appeal court dismissed.
The commission made no mention of the ongoing protest at its office on Monday but promised to grant about 50 applicants access to materials “without preferences or bias”
He lauded the UK for cooperation on many fronts, particularly in the rebuilding of the North-east, hitherto ravaged by insurgency.
Defence 1 also said another RUF soldier carried the nickname “Angel Gabriel,” not Massaquoi.
Speaking with our reporter, Miss Thomas alleged that Mr Akinosi then snatched her phone and smashed it on the ground.
Mr Buhari condoled with family, friends and associates of Mrs Akinfeleye, ”whose good work will continue to speak, particularly about the many lives she touched with her trademark charity, kindness and love.”
Similarly, a female suspect, Priscillia Amor, 35, was arrested on Tuesday with “26 wraps of weed suspected to be Indian hemp, 19 wraps of substance suspected to be Methamphetamine, eight packets of razlers and some mobile phones”.
Onyeke, urged the court to remove his name from the charge on the grounds that he had been convicted of the same charge by the court.
The petition wants the election cancelled over the omission of the party’s name on the ballot paper.
Mr Shehu said the council also approved contract for the development of external cost of infrastructure at the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) new training academy at N3.3 billion.
Salim Kaoje, the chairman of the parents’ group confirmed that the “negotiator” and two other parents are still in the forest pleading with Mr Gide to release the remaining students.
“So, the essence of the presentation of the council memo today is to deliberate on the action plan, review it and seek approval for its conservation or presentation before the International Human Rights committee for the purpose of establishing the following:
Similarly, the report said estimated customers stood at 5.91 million in Q3 2022, higher by 1.09 per cent from 5.85 million in Q2 2022.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission (ICPC) made a similar call on the judge, James Omotosho.
Nigerian university appoints new registrar, librarian
Knight of the Order of the British Empire – from Queen Elizabeth II of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, May 1989 (KBE).
Atiku was a candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the 25 February presidential election.
“It is important that the consultation is done, and done properly, that is what is going on right now,” he said.
Due to how time-sensitive the assignment was, they disembarked to clear the traffic.
“I congratulate you all on your well-deserved victory at the polls.
“Though we are aggrieved, we have decided not to take laws into our own hands, being law-abiding citizens.
The media aide to the Ooni of Ife, Moses Olafare, did not respond to calls and messages sent to his phone.
The House of Representatives has asked the government of the United Kingdom and the court in that country to temper justice with mercy in sentencing Ike Ekweremadu, a Nigerian senator, found guilty in March of “organ trafficking”.
Mr Oshundun also said that Mr Ngige had equally extended the apologies of the minister of FCT for the unintended embarrassment occasioned by the action of their officials who misinterpreted the general intention and work plan of one month of Messrs Julius Berger.
“Defence 1,” the 9th of them, like the others before him, told the Court the allegations against Mr Massaquoi were untrue.
“But Tinubu’s win with the ruling All Progressives Congress Party came in a fraught election and by a slim margin over Atiku Abubakar and Peter Obi.
Others include Tajudeen Abbas (APC, Kaduna), and Aminu Jaji (APC, Zamfara).
Gunmen abduct another man in Anambra
He explained that NNPC is taking advantage of Nigeria’s huge natural gas reserves of over 200 Trillion Cubic Feet (TCF) with a potential to grow to 600 Trillion Cubic Feet (TCF) as more investment is expected due to the recent resolution of the Production Sharing Contract disputes with partners.
Group wants Akpabio as Senate President, Jibrin as deputy
Effective summits focus on messaging, optics and credibility.
Among his interrogators in Anambra State are senior police officers whom he had indicted for seizing posh vehicles recovered from criminal suspects who were later executed in police custody,” the group said.
Mr Moses said his group is also calling for the cancellation of the presidential election, saying they have made presentations to the governments of the United States, Britain, and country representatives of the United Nations, European Union and ECOWAS Commission.
In its 2023 ranking, there are a total of 38 countries in Africa whose military powers were reviewed.
Beyond regaining his mandate, Mr Obi said he is committed to lifting people out of poverty and that he remains committed to transforming Nigeria starting from the North to every part of the nation.
Nigeria’s ruling party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) has adopted the direct mode of primary for its Kogi State governorship primary election.
“The girls rescued so far include; Aisha Grema, serial number 11 on the abducted Chibok girls’ list, Hannatu Musa, number 7 on the list, and Sera Luka, number 38 on the list.
That should not be.
The younger Ms Ekweremadu who is still undergoing dialysis blames herself for what has happened to her parents.
‘’CBN should print more new notes and ensure they are in circulation.
Co-chaired by Maria Ressa, Nobel Peace Prize winner and co-founder and CEO of Rappler, and Mark Thompson, former president and CEO of The New York Times Company, its mission is to ensure a complete shift in how public interest media is resourced, with the greater of ensuring it is independent, inclusive and resilient.
“The 1st petitioner (Mr Obi) was not a member of the 2nd petitioner (LP) as at the time of his alleged sponsorship.
The source however said no casualty was recorded in the incident.
Police officer accused of murder fails to appear in court
“Migrants incur a range of expenses before their departure, from the job information and job matching fees they pay to intermediary agents to the regulatory compliance or documentation fees (for a visa/ sponsorship, medical tests, and security clearance), transportation costs, and pre-departure training costs they must pay,” it said.
Atiku, who came second in the election, is challenging Mr Tinubu’s at the Presidential Election Petition Court on various grounds of alleged widespread irregularities and corrupt practices during the 25 February presidential election.
Rather than wait for external funding, he advised members to save money to enable them fund their trips abroad to attend some of the training sessions and congresses of the IPI, adding that they stand to benefit more from such sessions.
For both the main election and the rerun, the governor polled a total of 430,861 votes while the APC candidate scored 398,788 votes.
“The North-east had our brother, Dogara as Speaker but from 1999 to date, the North-central has no single Speaker.
Also, Siman Yunusa, chairman of the APC in Bete Ward, Mr Jimkuta`s ward, said that the ward executive did not sign any petition for the suspension of the senator-elect.
“We want to commend them, with the hope that more will still come.
If convicted, the suspect could get a death sentence, according to Nigerian law.
The courts ordered a retrial in the case, a decision Mr Sharif-Aminu has further appealed against at the Supreme Court calling for an outright dismissal of the charges.
“Two leading companies on the Nigerian Stock Exchange that are players in the oil palm value chain indicated interest as investors.
The team will file out against Zambia on Sunday at the Mohamed Hamlaoui Stadium at 5 p.m.
The group, under the aegis of Civil Society for Good Governance, argued that zoning the position to the region is in the interest of fairness and equity.
Supplementary polls are being held for three senatorial and 11 federal constituency seats in the state on Saturday.
Over 93 million voters were registered to vote and 87 million voters were eligible having collected their voter’s card.
He said the Authority delivered the project at a total cost of N9.5 billion with the subvention of N7.5 billion from the federal government.
“I thank God for what He has done for me personally and for what He has enabled us to achieve.
The mother and baby are on appropriate medication and receiving adequate management, care, and attention at our facility.”
I believe when you explain to a President whose mantra is transparency and fighting corruption, he will understand.
He was first accused in a murder case in 1979.
“We recognise the important role that international health and care workers play in health and care service delivery in the UK and we are committed to ensuring that we recruit from overseas in an ethically responsible manner,” UK wrote.
Presidential and parliamentary elections are held on the same day every five years.
Workers’ Day: Nigerian workers are our greatest resources – NBA
Justice Oguntoyinbo of the Federal High Court, Lagos had in November 2019 ordered the Federal Government to “recover life pensions collected by former governors serving as ministers and members of the National Assembly.”
In response to the court’s appeal, Wole Olanipekun, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) and lead lawyer to Bola Tinubu, the president-elect, said lawyers were ready to cooperate with the court.
The project, when it is implemented, would ease the infrastructure deficit in the oil-rich Niger Delta, Mr Ogbuku said.
Boko Haram attacks Yobe community, kills eleven civilians
“They inserted the word “deliberately” and omitted the phrase that it was in order to protect the sanctity of the data.
Therefore, his nomination as the next president of the Senate is very welcome.”
“However, for the past three consecutive days, the Ezza warriors have launched an attack on Effium Community and the security forces stationed in the zone.
But Mr Tinubu of the All Progressives Congress (APC) clinched the presidency after polling 8.8 million votes to beat Atiku and Labour Party’s Peter Obi in the race.
We thank you immensely for everything,” he added.
Former NBA president Okey Wali abducted, lawyers’ group begs for his release
And no one has stopped any airline in Nigeria, Max Air, United, all of them, they will go and bring in competencies but if they want to run it the way they are, it’s their choice and their business, but we will get them to do it and give Nigerians what they deserve,” the minister said.
In the application, she averred that a judicial review exists to enable the superior court to checkmate the actions and decisions of inferior courts as well as the legislative and administrative arm of government including agencies and public officers.
Mr Obi came fourth after securing 5 per cent of votes.
Mr Nweke said that it was disheartening that the issue of nonpayment of salary arrears, leave allowance, pension and gratuity had remained unresolved, with the present administration winding down.
He also said 1.3 million people were killed and as many as 50 million people injured each year globally.
“The war in Ukraine could intensify and lead to more food and energy price spikes, pushing inflation up.
The outlawed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has lamented “long delay” by the Supreme Court of Nigeria to hear an appeal filed before it by the Nigerian government against the acquittal granted to its leader, Nnamdi Kanu, by the Court of Appeal.
I want all of you to come and invest.
NBA sets up standing 20 committees on judiciary, law reform, others
Mr Emeh was later arrested in Benin Republic, a French-speaking West African country, on 3 March.
“This graduation is a reflection of the quality of human resources and training facilities in the centre.
Group empowers women, young girls in Abuja community
”This is with the view to upscaling its provision from a local observance of the protection of the human right to international standard by way of ensuring compliance with the best practices.”
“What is happening in some states today already is very unfortunate.
An interesting point was that this result came despite low voter turnout.
The management of the National Assembly says training of members-elect will begin on 7 May ahead of inauguration of the 10th Assembly.
In what is considered a monumental misjudgment, the Supreme Court poured cold water on the Bill by granting a longer adjourned date than the lifespan of the 7th Assembly.
“Three million children have been enrolled in the project, we have renovated over 5,000 classrooms and we are now going on constructions of classrooms.
Asked about the payment, Cahill said that, “rightly or wrongly,” it was not “terribly unlikely” that Quinn had made it.
OPEN LETTER TO THE SENATE PRESIDENT
Party members ask court to disqualify Kogi APC governorship candidate, five others
However, Mr Tinubu and his party have now zoned the Speaker and deputy senate president to the North-west, while the South-south and South-east now have senate president and deputy speaker respectively.
With almost all ballots counted, incumbent president Erdogan is leading with 49.42 per cent of the votes.
Ajay Banga was selected by executive directors of the bank for a five-year term beginning 2 June.
Expressing confidence in the abilities of each council member to bring unique perspectives, insights, and skills that would enrich collective decision-making, the president said:
“After I was taught how to go about it, I burnt the legs and kept them in my house with plans to complete the rituals when I returned from Ajah because I had a job to do there.
According to the statement, these individuals, under US Immigration and Nationality Act, will be subject to restrictions on visas to the United States under a policy covering those believed to be responsible for, or complicit in, undermining democracy.
PT: You talked about the wife of the president-elect, Remi Tinubu, what kind of support are you getting from women groups?
The recorded evidence of the children was played to the jury, and the mother gave live evidence.
It argued that there was a subsisting judgement of a sister court delivered by Taiwo Taiwo on 3 June 2022 in suit number: FHC/ABJ/CS/1585/2021 between Kanu and DG of SSS and two others, wherein the court dealt substantially with the issue of allowing the IPOB leader access to his personal physician.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the content guidelines were set out by the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB).
He reiterated his commitment to the “rule of law, justice, fairness and equity.”
APC asks tribunal to dismiss three opposition parties’ petitions against Tinubu’s victory
I encourage Nigerians to remain calm and steadfast in the journey to reclaiming their mandate of a New Nigeria.
Dual Citizenship: Ex-Guinea’s President, envoy speak on Tinubu’s relationship with country
He explained that the finance minister has continued to ignore the summon, but that the committee is still giving her the benefit of doubt.
*Victim Company H: $1,000,000.00
Four countries – India, Malaysia, Philippines, and Sri Lanka – are green-graded countries permitted for active recruitment based on a signed government-to-government agreement with the UK for international health and social care workforce recruitment.
“The sample also tested positive.
Both INEC and President Buhari have authorised Mr Ari’s suspension from office and his investigation and possible prosecution by the police.
At around 9 a.m., she said her son and others were accredited and allowed into the hall.
Challenging the competence of the petition, Thomas Ojo, a member of the APC legal team being led by Lateef Fagbemi, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), argued that Mr Obi was not a genuine member of the Labour Party as at the time of the election.
This was revealed in a tweet by the Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NiDCOM) where it shared a video showing buses parked in line.
It implies that all things being equal, the manufacturer would have been reporting higher profit margins had it discontinued those two business units at the time they became pretty cost-intensive.
Even if it is to rework or rephrase or even paraphrase or add more words, paraphrase, rejig in a way that everyone understands what we are doing, and get their input.
Mr Adeleke added that he had also taken judicious note of all the requests and demands contained in the addresses delivered by labour unions.
It invited – into minds seeking a grasp on reality – gruesome variations on images from Dante’s Purgatorio.
Apart from granting AMCON possession of the property situated at No.
“Health emergencies, many of which are driven by climate change, often disrupt access to safe water and sanitation services, increasing the risk of waterborne and vector-borne diseases,” she said.
This is based on the calculation of the annual DE registration figures and what has been recorded so far this year,” the source added.
Mr Yabagi said the decision ensured that every zone was accommodated in the power sharing equation thereby helping to calm frayed nerves and peace throughout Obasanjo’s eight years administration.
He explained that the second defendant (Mr Oleyelogun) was having health challenge that needed urgent medical attention.
The fourth and final session – Africa in the multilateral architecture: where is its voice?
However, OCCRP has uncovered more than a dozen other properties with links to Tinubu, mostly acquired while he served as Lagos State’s governor from May 1999 to May 2007.
The theme of the forum is, “Global Africa.”
Mr Idigbe died in 1983 at 59, while on the bench of the Supreme Court.
Mr Mohammed advised the opposition to stop their endless griping over the polls which they lost, adding the president deserves accolades for delivering the best election in Nigeria’s history.
For the PDP that claims to have won the election to resort to this level of violence to block a legitimate legal challenge tells a different story of a party sitting precariously on needles and pins in the face of prospects of a legal challenge by our Governorship Candidate.
This is not a good thing for the state.
This 5th alteration exercise is the second time the National Assembly has gone this far to restore legislative powers to the original thinking of the Framers of our Constitution.
“Well, death is a due everybody must pay and we don’t know when (we will pay it).
The estranged deputy speaker of Ondo State Hiuse of Assembly had petitioned to the EFCC in 2021 that the Speaker, some members and officials of the Assembly collected N2.4 million for a seminar in Lagos which they did not attend.
Degree in Mathematics Education, an MSc in Engineering Analysis, and a Master of Business Administration degree.
Nigeria, Chad condemn ongoing clash in Sudan
Adeyemi Ikuforiji and his personal assistant were first arraigned on 1 March 2012 on a 20-count charge of misappropriation and money laundering.
Coach Ugbade’s diligent preparations have instilled confidence in the young squad and Williams believes the knowledge and skills acquired under Ugbade’s guidance will help them achieve their goals:
We celebrate him and thank you for giving us this opportunity.”
Mr Ogunwusi thanked the corps for making him its grand patron and promised not to let them down in all areas where his attention is needed.
The two aircraft arrived minutes apart.
In the blink of an eye, everyone is at Boma’s house due to the lie she told.
The minister accused the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC) of sabotaging Mr Buhari’s anti-corruption efforts.
The Supreme Court on Thursday adjourned the hearing of the case concerning the leader of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu, until 14 September.
But HD kept having the feeling that the launch still had to happen and so it finally did on 1 December, 2022.
He said Anambra was fast losing its arable land due to gully erosion which was active on about 1,000 sites which he blamed on the nature of the soil.
Mr Kaoje, whose younger sister, Farida Kaoje, is still being held by the terrorists, said Mr Gide did not request additional ransom before releasing the latest batch of pupils.
“We plan to take him into custody and to produce him before the court.
He said further that the report also identified Kwara as among the high flood-risk states.
The suspected ritualist was caught with over one hundred used children's diapers and cash following an accident that left one dead.
We’ll keep fighting for the Zamfara workers,” Mr Halliru, who didn’t give a reason for the delay in paying the salaries,” said.
Three aggrieved All Progressives Congress (APC) senators have petitioned the party’s secretariat over the adoption of consensus candidates for the Senate Presidency of the 10th National Assembly.
He contended that the South-east was being marginalised in the distribution of leadership positions in the country, adding that there are capable senators-elect from the region that can lead the 10th Senate.
The senator-elect, who is one of the contenders for the office of the Senate president, has been invited by the EFCC for questioning over corruption investigation.
“Almost without fail in every election cycle, politicians have forcefully, either overtly or covertly, sought to persuade voters that voting for their particular party or candidate is the will of God and that voting for the opposing party was a violation of that divine will.
Police spokesperson in the state, Catherine Anene, said 28 bodies were recovered at a camp for internally displaced people in Mgban Local Government Area between Friday evening and Saturday morning, some hours after the last attack was recorded.
Mr Adejobi said the digitalised CMRIS will effectively serve the purpose of obtaining additional information from members of the public about stolen vehicles and populating the Stolen Vehicle database so as to ensure that vehicles to be registered by the CMR are not stolen and to aid investigation of stolen vehicles and vehicle-associated incidents.
It was a further testimony that our citizens have accepted democratic norms and have unalloyed faith in the electoral process.
“Women involvement in the 2023 general election was an eloquent testimony of their preparedness to serve the fatherland and should be given the opportunity to do so.”
This is following several calls by Nigerian students in Sudan asking to be evacuated.
CPJ condemns trial, conviction of Nigerian journalists for alleged defamation
5 hectares of cannabis farms were destroyed.
The expectations of Nigerians are very high on the up-coming Bola Ahmed Tinubu Presidency, which had triumphed over all known forces of religious bigotry of “Muslim-Muslim ticket, ethnicity and other divisive tendencies.
It was, however, silent on Mr Ekweremadu’s wife and the doctor.
It is unclear, for now, if Governor Soludo’s administration will appeal the court judgment.
The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) says it will provide emergency food and nutrition to 2.1 million people affected by conflict and in dire need of humanitarian assistance in Nigeria.
PRESIDENT-ELECT’S STATEMENT ON SUPPLEMENTARY ELECTIONS
He said the North-west and North-east have occupied the position for a combined period of 16 years, hence the North-central should be favoured.
“In terms of infrastructural development, this administration has made determined efforts to surmount the deficit in accommodation and other amenities,” he added.
Members of the executive branch, whether Presidents or Governors, will do anything to avoid accountability to the people.
Mr Yusuf noted that some of the measures could exacerbate inflationary pressures which are detrimental to economic growth and manufacturing, construction and transportation sectors.
The blog, which reportedly gathered the information from Mr Emeh, claimed that the officers “illegally” arrested their victims, labelled them as “unknown gunmen” and then torture them to accept the labelling before killing them and taking possession of their vehicles and other valuables.
With his declaration, Mr Ndubueze becomes the third aspirant for the position from the South-east after Osita Izunaso, also from Imo State and Orji Kalu, who is currently the Chief Whip of the Senate.
Mr Adejobi said the officers’ action was “barbaric” and “does not portray the police in a good light at all”.
Also, Lukmon Olumoh (Ajeromi-Ifelodun I) lamented that such appointments without regard for the House were becoming too many.
Ten days after Ms Yakubu’s gruesome murder, a mob of religious fanatics in Warji Local Government Area of Bauchi State, North-east Nigeria, went on a violent protest destroying shops and injuring people over an alleged blasphemous comment posted on social media.
“Suddenly, my daughter called me while I was at Ajah that the police had come to the house looking for me.
He urged Nigerians to always avoid creating a mob environment.
On the state of insecurity in the country, Mr Areghan said the examination body is “liaising with the Inspector General of Police, Brigade Commanders, other security agencies and the various State governments to provide security in order to ensure that the examination is conducted under a secure and safe environment.”
Mr Okoye said that INEC resident electoral commissioners had held stakeholder engagements with political parties and civil society groups.
Mr Gbajabiamila also said the House would revisit the law that made the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) the agency responsible for taking charge of such evacuations for a possible review.
The Presidential/VIP Wing houses several specialized departments, to be staffed by a team of medical professionals, featuring five consultation rooms dedicated to various specialties, including respiratory, cardiology, ophthalmology, ENT, and general consultation.
Kidnapping for ransom is rampant in many parts of Taraba State.
Ooni hosts, renames Americans with African root
A House of Representatives member-elect, Tunji Akinosi, alleged to have knocked down a hawker in Lagos has denied the allegation.
The state was just a little above southeast Abia state where turnout was 18 per cent.
“This is a great win for all our people, especially the Ndokwa nation.
Works and Housing Minister, Babatunde Fashola, says the augmentation was in the sum of N17 billion which revised the contract sum to N49 billion with an additional completion time of 42 months.’’
His arrest after being declared wanted by the police came days after three high-ranking police officers serving in Anambra State were accused of various criminal activities in the state.
Fourthly, the petition stated, Mr Tinubu was at the time of the election not qualified to contest the election.
• Darlington Nwokeocha Abia Central
The exaggerated reports of violence and malpractices in the state did not occur in up to 1% of these polling units in one or two local government areas.
NAN reports that the police alleged that the defendants, all of House on the Rock Refuge Church, Wuye, Abuja conspired amongst themselves, to illegally possess an AK47 rifle.
• Godswill Obot Akpabio – Akwa Ibom N/West
The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) conducted supplementary elections last Saturday in 2,660 polling units across 185 local government areas in 24 states.
The Army’s Director of Public Relations, Onyema Nwaxhukwu, said this while briefing journalists on the Trooping and Presentation of Colours Parade on Tuesday in Abuja.
The monarch expressed hope that Governor Ugwuanyi would intervene in the matter, adding that the governor would not afford to usher the incoming administration of Peter Mbah “with parting trojan horse of crisis.”
“God gave me an incredible opportunity to serve the country.
He also did not say if NBC would comply with the verdict for the time being.
He explained that the tactical skills imparted to the contingent will put them in good stead to accomplish assigned tasks in fulfilment of the ECOMIG mandate.
He said the accident involved a Mercedes Benz Tipper conveying 31 passengers to a burial ceremony.
The details of decisions reached at the meeting were not however not disclosed to journalists.
“What they fail to say is that I have already communicated that the institutional framework should be followed in the selection of a new Alaafin and new Soun.
On her part, acting British High Commissioner to Nigeria, Bill Atkinson, said the commission was proud of the long-standing partnership with the National Assembly.
Law firms have the second lowest number of women in senior roles (43 per cent), behind the judiciary (33 per cent).”
According to a statement by the police spokesperson in the state, Abimbola Oyeyemi, on Sunday, the incident that led to their arrest happened at Abule Ijoko Lemode in the Ifo Local Government area of the state on 10 May.
In spite of the unmistakable statistical data of the results, they have been insistent that they won, as against the official declaration of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC).
In separate statements, they also threatened to take legal action against a newspaper, People’s Gazette, which first published the audio.
“The fellowships not only reflect the depth and quality of their research expertise but also their commitments to illuminate topics and issues of the greatest importance to our society,” he added.
Female Rep joins speakership race, asks male candidates to step down
On gratuity payment, the NLC president said union leaders had, on several occasions, presented the issue to the government without any positive response.
The aspirants for the APC ticket in Kogi State include; Abdulkareem Asuku, the Chief of Staff to Governor Yahaya Bello, Kogi Stare Auditor General, Ahmed Ododo, and Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Salami Ozigi-Deedat
“The policemen were not using their police batons.
What is most tragic about Chimamanda’s letter to President Joe Biden is that she wrote as an unrepentant Igbo jingoist masquerading as an objective intellectual and patriotic Nigerian.
In a 35-paragraph affidavit in support of his own originating summons, Mr Adeyemi claimed to have obtained his nomination and expression of interest form at N50 million.
While emphasising the need for the Nigerian market to be more competitive, Mr Adesugba said that the free trade zones scheme turned the tides of economic development of different nations.
Mr Dikko said Mr Raheem will run on the PEASE agenda, which is the acronym for power, education, agriculture, security and employment.
“We must all make sure that the burden and pain of these measures, which must be taken, are not carried by workers alone.
Mr Gowon called on Nigerians to accept court judgements on election petitions amid the confidence crisis the Supreme Court has suffered in recent times.
Lawyers, in response, gave their commitment to cooperate with the court.
“The continuous decline relative to February reflects the negative impact of cash shortage across different segments of the economy over the past two months,” said Muyiwa Oni, head of Equity Research West Africa at Stanbic IBTC Bank.
It’s just one woman.
The school management was said to have insisted that “allowing residential buildings near the school would expose the students and staff to insecurity.”
Sterling Bank, Ecobank, Lasaco Insurance top stock pick for this week
He added that Ghana, as the first country to approve the vaccine, represents a “significant milestone in our efforts to combat malaria around the world”.
The result is a heart-rending portrayal of the cost of this tragedy, which has touched the lives of communities in Nigeria and across the globe,” she said
But Chikwado-Eze objected to the application on the grounds that the offence, which he was charge with, was a bailable offence under the law.
Pangolins, known as the guardians of the forest, protect local ecosystems from termite destruction.
Grievances raised at the national collation Centre ought to have been addressed at the previous levels of the collation at local government and state levels.
Mr Tinubu and the APC are reportedly backing some aspirants for the leadership positions of the National Assembly.
Mr Umakhihe said the need for this policy cannot be over-emphasized due to the rising cost of feed ingredients partly because of its use by humans and animals.
On Instagram, actor Yomi Fabiyi described the late actor as talented, creative, hardworking, so soft, humble and supportive.
It is unclear, for now, if the invitation was in connection with his activities while serving as minister of Niger Delta Affairs or during his tenure as governor of oil-rich Akwa Ibom.
Next step: Federal Executive Council approval of the Full Business Case.”
Although, other rodents have also been identified to carry the virus.
“Paragraphs 59-60 of the petition disclose no identity or particulars of scores and polling units supplied in 18,088 units mentioned therein,” it added.
Easter: Jonathan preaches love, sacrifice
Meanwhile, in a statement on Monday, Mele Kyari, the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited (NNPCL) Group Chief Executive Officer said the world today has recognized the need to ensure sustainability in the energy landscape which is in line with the current realities and as key players in the energy sector.
Through this, we aim to set the agenda for improved governance of foreign financial flows into the country.
The suspected members of Eiye and Aiye confraternities started their gun battle in Sagamu on Tuesday.
The airport is now reopened for operations.
“So we reported to the president that we were unable to confirm the veracity of the allegation, hence, no further action was taken by my office.”
The public debt figures, however, exclude the N22.7 trillion Federal Government’s indebtedness to the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) through Ways and Means advances.
55, which proposes to include former Senate Presidents and Speakers of the House of Representatives as members of the Council of State.
Both the federal government’s appeal and Mr Kau’s application are the two major matters pending at the court for hearing.
Some of the voters attributed the voter apathy to doubts over the transparent conduct of the elections.
JAMB fixes new date for 2023 UTME
The latter shaped the outcome of the presidential elections.
“Lalong describes this as yet another attempt by crises merchants and criminals to return the State to the dark days of pain and agony, vowing that the Government will stop at nothing to ensure that those behind this scheme are dealt with mercilessly.
The rest were held through HH Capital.
Mr Abubakar is from the Wurkunawa tribe.
The director explained that activities have been outlined to actualise the success of the operation and ensure that intending pilgrims are well prepared for the spiritual journey to the holy land of Saudi Arabia.
Inauguration: Tinubu, APC leaders visit Defence House
Total Accredited Votes – 50, 852
The outgoing governor of Zamfara State, Bello Matawalle, has asked the anti-graft agency, EFCC, to probe ‘officers of the presidency’ and members of the Federal Executive Council (FEC).
He sentenced each of them to a fine of N60,000 on the count of defamation or three months imprisonment in default of payment.
PREMIUM TIMES had reported that the ruling party opted for Mr Abbas as the consensus candidate for the speaker, and Ben Kalu as the deputy speaker.
The phrase was popularised by Mr Tinubu.
That is absurd,” he added.
Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, says the 9th National Assembly has performed creditably well in terms of delivering democracy dividends to Nigerians since its inauguration in 2019.
Sonia Ekweremadu, daughter of former Deputy President of the Nigerian Senate, Ike Ekweremadu, has spoken about her parent’s conviction in a BBC interview.
In a statement by FAAN’s spokesperson, Faithful Hope-Ivbaze issued on Sunday, the authority said the Lion Volkan 6×6 Brand, Major Aerodrome Rescue and Fire Fighting Vehicles (MFFV), have the capacity to carry 14,000 litres of water, 1,700 litres of foam, 250kg powder capacity each, and monitors the discharge rate of between 6,000 litres to 10,000 litres per minute.
About the same time, another viral video clip, also showed Mr Tinubu the governor of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu and the Guinean ambassador to the African Union (AU) for Agenda 2063, Ousmane Yara, in a Guinea-government-owned helicopter.
”I expect them to wait patiently and allow our legal system to run its course.
When pressed further by his interviewer for clarity on the allegation, the LP presidential candidate denied ever saying the election was a religious war.
The Nigerian Upstream Petroleum Regulatory Commission has a statutory responsibility to ensure that oil and gas firms in Nigeria comply with the country’s petroleum laws, regulations, and guidelines.
The APC also accused the police of not taking action to investigate the attacks on its members in the state.
“The House is aware of ongoing difficulties with the evacuation efforts and the federal government’s response to the developments in the Republic of Sudan,” Mr Gbajabiamila said.
“Our position is further buoyed by our dominant numerical strength, which by parliamentary ethos, precedent and the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999, as amended, allows us to contest the Presiding Officers position.
You face difficult challenges ahead and you are mortals.
The Malaysian ministry said it had taken enforcement actions and recalled the affected products.
If there’s anything I wish to change, it is the impunity towards judicial decisions and the disrespect for the bench.”
According to him, the menace has almost engulfed all sectors, adding, “including all functionality of the society.
Mr Okoye disagreed with Chikwado-Eze on the ground that Nnamdi had never been arraigned before.
“Sections 121 and 127 of the Electoral Act prohibit electoral bribery and undue influence before, during and after any election.”
PREMIUM TIMES contacted Josephine Adeh, the spokesperson to the FCT Police, for an official confirmation of the attack.
“The notion of Reconciliation was clearly N/A – Non Applicable.
First let’s start with the one thing the editorial gets right: that President Buhari inherited an economy in disarray.
Mr President, you cannot forget how former President Olusegun Obasanjo used this transitional provision of the Constitution to argue that the 1961 Emergency Powers Act empowered him to issue the Order to suspend the then Governor of Plateau State, the entire Executive Council and the State House of Assembly!
1 May 1 is a day set aside by the United Nations as International Labour Day where workers and activists around the globe mark the day with rallies calling for higher wages.
Mr Fintiri polled a total of 430,861 votes to defeat Mrs Dahiru who got 398,788 votes.
But the police spokesperson in the state, Olufunmilayo Odunlami-Omisanya, on a live radio programme on Tuesday, said police had arrested two suspects allegedly involved in the jungle justice meted out on the deceased.
The agency made this known in a statement issued Tuesday by its Corporate Affairs Assistant General Manager, Faithful Hope-Ivbaze.
Nigerian government, by its appeal, seeks to have the judgement of the Court of Appeal freeing the IPOB leader from terrorism and treasonable felony charges overturned.
Or why are skinny jeans, armed robber looking, gun blazing unmarked men standing on the highway along Lekki-Epe express?,” he had tweeted.
“CrossBoundary Energy will fully finance the development and construction of the Ibadan and Ama renewable energy facilities, and will operate both facilities as part of a 15-year solar services agreement with NB,” the company stated on its website.
Mr Olarewaju said the university had set up a committee to unravel the circumstances leading to the gruesome murder of the student.
NBC, BON fault NCC’s plan to sell 600MHz spectrum band
UN Population Division Director, John Wilmoth, said this at a news conference on Monday at UN headquarters in New York.
It is complete with an incubation hub, an accelerator space, a studio for content creators, two training rooms, a multipurpose hall and a restaurant.
Speaking on the report, the WHO in a statement said COVID-19 pandemic, rising poverty, and worsening humanitarian crises have intensified pressures on stretched health systems.
“We’re also part of this area.
In his address, Gabriel Aduda, permanent secretary, Ministry of Petroleum Resources, said energy security and achieving net-zero emissions goals are two of the most pressing challenges of modern time, and they are particularly relevant to Nigeria as a major oil and gas producer.
Mr Buhari said Easter is a season that reminds mankind that the Almighty can turn an unpleasant situation around for good.
“Asiwaju will be sworn in on May 29, and he will hit the ground running.’’
Governor Simon Bako Lalong of Plateau State shares a handshake with Peter Obi, the Labour Party presidential candidate.
This is the import of this press statement today.
The ruling APC has so far won 162 seats out of the 325 seats declared by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC).
Group urges Tinubu to prioritise release of remaining Chibok girls
Many important issues were also discussed by the two leaders regarding security.
She said the former minister told her that he took the steps against her because he no longer wanted her in the office and asked that she resigned voluntarily or challenge her suspension in court.
Repeatedly, we hear of prophets who support political parties one way or the other,” he said.
“Fellow comrades, we have consistently presented the issue of gratuity payment to the government but nothing has been done in that regard.
Urges Nigerians, Residents to Utilize Portal Effectively
Members of State Houses of Assembly-elect should contact our State offices for their Certificates.”
Upon sighting police operatives, the third suspect engaged them in a gun duel and, in the process, escaped through the ceiling of his roof with bullet wounds, he said.
• Yahaya Abdullahi Kebbi North
The Candidate of New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP), Muhammad Shehu, has been declared winner of the Fagge Federal House of Representatives of Kano state.
PREMIUM TIMES had earlier reported that the ruling party adopted Tajudeen Abbas, a lawmaker from Kaduna State as the consensus candidate for the speaker, and Ben Kalu, a lawmaker from Abia State, as deputy speaker.
Some voters cited indifference, among other things, as a reason for their lack of interest in the process.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) recalls that the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) had in its communique at the end of its National Executive Committee meeting in Birnin Kebbi on 23 March made a similar call.
At no point did they engage in stop-and-search, neither were they on routine township patrol.”
These events, although not new, have assumed greater significance as competition between global powers intensifies.
“An accident at Ifako inward Ogudu Bridge involving a BRT Bus and a commercial Bus.
The police commissioner urged residents of the state to continue to support the security agencies and the state government in their efforts to provide security in the state.
She said the present Board of the commission is committed to transparency, justice and ready to midwife other policies and programmes that would improve the lives of the people of the region.
“The place is very close.
‘‘This was achieved with the preparation of the Volume III of the NDP that deals with Legislative Imperatives for identified binding constraints to plan implementation in Nigeria.
• Imasuen Neda Bernards Edo South
While addressing her colleagues on Wednesday in Abuja, Mrs Akande-Sadipe, acknowledged the challenges she faced during the electoral process and expressed gratitude for the opportunity given to serve the people.
The APP further contended that the results of the 25 February presidential election were supposed to be transmitted directly from all polling units across Nigeria to the INEC IReV portal.
PREMIUM TIMES reported how the aspirants have commenced the campaign while waiting for the decision of the All Progressives Congress (APC) on where the position will be zoned to..
Commenting on the report, SDN’s Acting Country Director, Florence Ibok-Abasi, said the health and environmental impacts associated with fossil fuel production had been documented for several decades but that they have been largely ignored in favour of profits by concerned stakeholders.
It resolved to investigate the funds due to the non-provision of mobile telecommunication services to underserved areas despite millions of dollars spent.
This newspaper also gathered that the government of Egypt demanded a pledge that once Nigerians depart the border, they will be conveyed directly to the designated airport.
According to the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), from week 1 to week 13, 846 confirmed infections and 148 deaths were reported with a case fatality rate (CFR) of 17.5 per cent.
He said that the commission did not comply with the law when it sat as a complainant and at the same time, the court and the judge on its own matter.
“I wonder how a man, a reasonable man, would be flogging or slapping a grown-up man in that manner,” the spokesperson added.
Candidates who could not sit the mock Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) on 30 March due to technical hitches can now re-print their slips for the rescheduled test.
The governor-elect disclosed this on Tuesday in a statement jointly issued by his spokesperson Ferdinand Ekeoma and the spokesperson of the Labour Party in the state, Jerry Njoku.
Mr Osinbajo commended the elder statesman’s impact and influence in major decisions particularly with regards to uniting Nigerians and promoting peace across the country.
He said, more so, the president promised that he would provide a level playing ground which he did.
The policy will ensure that people with HIV are not discriminated against and are respected, especially with regard to their personal and human rights, the statement said.
The former Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi, died on 22 April last year after 51 years on the throne.
‘‘I congratulate the members of the National Council for Digital Innovation and Entrepreneurship on their assignment and wish them a successful and productive engagement in harnessing our youth talents and uplifting our country’s economy to new heights,’’ Mr Buhari said.
The leadership of the labour union in the state had explained that the resumption of the industrial action, which it suspended in March, was in response to the failure of the state government to pay the salaries of the workers despite promising to do so.
“They were led by one Nnabuike Egede aka Champaign.
“Unfortunately, if not arrested, it will have serious repercussions on neighbouring countries,” he said, adding that he has closed our borders to Sudan and reinforced Chad’s security.
“What they did was purely illegal.
It is their decision.
Both factors offer a good entry point for investors seeking considerable price appreciation in the short term and those looking to take a long position in stocks with strong prospects.
Voter turnout refers to the percentage of people who take part in an election relative to the total number of eligible voters.
Mr Apapa said he was the legitimate leader of Labour Party who should take the seat.
software is sometimes used to distort public figures.
Mr Yusuf noted that it is therefore insensitive of policy makers to impose a whopping 40 per cent import duty on vehicles in an economy where there is no mass transit system and where vehicle ownership has become a necessity, especially for the middle class.
The lawyers also filed notices of preliminary objections, urging the court to dismiss the suit brought by way of originating summons, in view of the conflicting facts deposed to by the parties.
We pray that God gives you the wisdom to see what is right and the strength of character and conscience to stand by the truth.
“As such you must at all times conduct yourselves professionally,” he added.
Nigeria has confirmed 39 new Lassa fever infections and two deaths in one week, spanning 20 to 26 March.
However, just days later, the ICC issued its warrant for Mr Putin’s arrest.
The House of Representatives has asked the federal government to suspend the planned disbursement of the $700 million in the Cabotage Vessel Finance Fund to Nigerian shippers.
This issue is therefore resolved against the Attorney General, in favour of SERAP.”
“The properties comprise 168 homes situated at Sheikh Ja’afar Mahmud Adam Bandirawo City, Kano; 122 houses at Sheikh Nasiru Kabara (Amana City), Kano and 38 houses at Sheikh Khalifa Ishaq Rabiu City, Kano.
“What this implied is that all parties, including Chief Fani-Kayode, should have access to their documents.
In another development, NiDCOM in a statement signed by Gabriel Odu said over 7,000 people, including Nigerians, fleeing Sudan have been denied access to Egypt since their arrival late Thursday evening.
• Salisu Shuaib Afolabi – Ogun Central
This was contained in a statement signed by the National Secretary of APGA, Muhyideen Imam, on Wednesday in Abuja.
For instance, to change ‘a State Chief Justice’ to ‘a State Chief Judge’ and to rename a town in old Sokoto State to become part of Zamfara.
But lately there is a clear attempt to move beyond the cosmetic into something more tangible.
“It needs to be stated at this point that the dispute being who should be the Acting National Chairman of the 1st Respondent, APGA and whether the Chairman, Edozie Njoku was validly replaced are within the confines of the internal affairs of the 1st Respondent which is not Justiciable,” the judgement said.
“I am grateful to our people who once again gave me the mandate to continue to represent them in the business of legislation at the National Assembly,’’ he said.
The court withheld the names because the case revolves around a child.
The defendants were first arraigned on 1 March 2012 before Justice Okechukwu Okeke on a 20-count charge of misappropriation and money laundering.
The next batch of 132 returnees from Sudan are expected in Abuja around 2 p.m. on Saturday.
The ad hoc committee is chaired by Bamidele Salam (PDP, Osun) with the mandate to report to the House within four weeks.
We have their permission to republish).
“This comes as no surprise to me.
“They make it to look like INEC deliberately refused to upload the results.”
During my administration as a democratically elected President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria between 1999 and 2007, Ike Ekweremadu and I had close relationship and interactions as staunch members of our political party, Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, and more so as he got elected into the Senate of the Federal Republic of Nigeria in 2003, of which he has since remained a member till date.
That side of course, they say will be completed on the 30th of this month, fully open to traffic,” he said.
Mr Adebayo added that Mr Oni’s “political family” would take a decision on the next line of action to be taken by the former governorship candidate.
The magistrate after listening to both parties ruled that she would not rely on police investigation hence she remanded the defendant for 48 hours in police custody.
He said that the council also approved the full business case for a project on National Fire Detection and Alarm System incorporating life safety system, networking, monitoring and dispersion at real time.
The chairman of the union in the state, Eugene Manji, made the call during the celebration of the workers day on Monday at Rwang Pam stadium, Jos.
During the event, CJID and PREMIUM TIMES are expected to contribute to the discourse by engaging experts on the role of media in the development of the agricultural sector through a panel discussion tagged; “The Impact of Insecurity, Climate Change, Post-Harvest on Food Security in Nigeria, and The Role of the Media in the Development of the Agricultural Sector”.
The FCT Muslim Pilgrims Welfare Board says it will commence medical screening for the 2023 Hajj intending pilgrims from May 5 to May 7.
Mo Ibrahim, Founder and Chair of the Mo Ibrahim Foundation, said: “As we speak, the world is changing around us.
President Buhari greets Governor Adeleke at 63
And some individuals (within and without the Commission) still retain the retrogressive mindset that has held the Commission down for the past 22 years.
He said that the federal government was doing all that was necessary in ensuring a peaceful transition of government following the peaceful conduct of the 2023 general elections.
It’s a great honour that I know him and he mentored me.
However, UBA is not the only bank whose social media account has been cloned for fraud.
Mr Tambuwal urged the governors-elect to continue to sustain the collaboration and strength the forum is known for.
“The PDP did not lose the Presidential election as claimed by President Buhari and we are not willing to surrender the mandate freely given to our party by the people irrespective of the threats, bullying and manipulation by the APC-led administration.
The coronation will take place on Saturday, 6 May.
With top exports that range from gold, groundnuts, other oily seeds, crude petroleum, sheep and goats which she exports mostly to the United Arab Emirates, China, Saudi Arabia and Italy, the most phenomenal of its economic strides is that, in 2021, Sudan was voted as the world’s biggest exporter of groundnut meal with $18.8M exports.
The magistrate, M.O.
Other contenders for the position include Sada Soli (Katsina), Muktar Betara (Borno), Abubakar Makki (Jigawa), Aminu Jaji (APC, Zamfara), Ado Doguwa (Kano) and Miriam Onuoha ( Imo).
Is that why no one can rest since you came along?”
Our burden has now multiplied as we do not have the money to bear the additional burden of feeding, educating, and [providing] healthcare for our returnee children and grandchildren.
According to the controller, on April 21, at about 4:03p.m, officers of the command, while on routine patrol along the Abidjan – Lagos Corridor, intercepted a Ford Bus with registration number, EPE 622 YC at Gbatrome, Badagry.
She said: “AMS is a system-wide healthcare strategy, designed to promote, improve, monitor, and evaluate the rational use of antimicrobials to preserve their future effectiveness, along with the promotion and protection of public health.”
Also, an official at Perfect Angel CBT Centre, who craved anonymity, said about six candidates arrived at the centre late.
Give us the spirit of forgiveness and heal us from our infirmities, that blindness which makes us forget that we are brothers and sisters, children of One Father.
Major Nigerian broadcast stations have been strained by exorbitant fines for breaches of the code in the last few years, some of which have triggered court actions.
Nigeria’s Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mohammad Abubakar, on Tuesday said that Nigeria needs innovative technology to develop sustainable methods of increased animal feed production in the country.
The NCC said this in a statement by Reuben Muoka, the director of public affairs of the commission.
He noted that USPF is designed to encourage the “installation of network facilities and the provision of network services to institutions in the unserved and underserved areas of the country.”
“Unfortunately, one Dayo Bankole, a trader in the market, who was shot by the robbers, gave up the ghost while receiving treatment at the General Hospital, Ijaye Abeokuta.”
The Force Public Relations Officer described the incident at the police barracks in Sango, Ibadan, as very unfortunate, saying efforts were on to map some of them for adequate renovation.
Mr Ahmed said the policeman used the butt of the rifle to strike Mr Wada on the head.
Responding to the applicant’s averment, counsel to EFCC, Rotimi Oyedepo SAN, argued that the applicant had brought nothing before the court to convince the court to vacate the order.
The Chairperson of the NDDC board, Lauretta Onochie is against the project idea, and has described the MOU signing as ‘illegal, null and void’.
In 1975, he was reappointed as a Justice of the Supreme Court of Nigeria.
“There was an incident about a whistleblower who made a formal report to Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU) about $200m paid into two companies account Biz Plus, and GSCL allegedly for consultancy services, which allegedly were approved by the Attorney General’s office on the approval of Mr President,” he said.
I have attached with this letter, emails evidence I received from British airways airline regarding this matter”.
Mr Wilmoth said the main driver of this trend was the fertility level in the two nations, noting that together, China and India’s collective populations equalled more than one-third of the world’s eight billion citizens.
Governor Charles Soludo of Anambra State has threatened to cut salaries of workers who fail to go to work on Monday in compliance with the infamous sit-at-home order usually enforced by the outlawed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB).
“Yes, we have been doing that, we’ve done a lot of consultations and they’ve been very positive and well received.
She said that the team had applied for the CTC of the Appeal Court judgement and that this would be made available to the public as soon as it is received.
However, he has a formidable opponent from the region in Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi, who has also declared interest in the position.
The Day is also to ensure that civic space is not restricted considering the contribution of freedom of expression to development of our democracies all over the world and Nigeria in particular.
“Companies that have products whose raw materials are probably locally sourced or they have other means of sourcing raw materials without paying much of foreign exchange will be making much profit on those lines now that everybody is looking inwards,” Folorunsho Adeleye, team lead of internal audit & compliance at Lagos-based Superflux told PREMIUM TIMES.
Mr Iwuanyanwu, while reeling out the priorities of his administration, said he would make “a special appeal” to President Muhammadu Buhari to release Nnamdi Kanu, the detained leader of the outlawed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), before he (Buhari)  exits office on 29 May.
“It is my view that Section 108(3) of ACJA is poor legislative drafting,” he said.
The Minister of Labour and Employment, Chris Ngige, however described as “absurd” the demands by the doctors.
The minister said FEC awarded the contract for the procurement and installation of taxi lighting system, and photometric pattern for Port Harcourt, Lagos, Abuja, and some other equipment all over the country.
Meanwhile, the deputy secretary of the council, MrAdebiyi, said no fewer than 30 prospective investors from Nigeria,drawn from the health, education, agriculture, communications, power and finance sectors, will be attending the summit.
Mr. Justin Pierre James Trudeau, Prime Minister of Canada
Although the Pirkanmaa District Court of Tampere acquitted Mr Massaquoi a little over a year ago on grounds that prosecutors did not prove his crimes “beyond a reasonable doubt,” prosecutors have lined up witnesses to strengthen their argument in these appeal proceedings that the lower court got it wrong by its decision.
Adding her nine years at the Court of Appeal to her 17 years on the High Court bench, Ms Bolaji-Yusuf becomes the longest-serving judge among the five judges on the panel of the Presidential Election Petition Court, with 26 years of unbroken career as a judge to her credit.
They were moved by bus from Sudan to Egypt, from where they were to be airlifted to Nigeria.
In fact, before the elections, Governor Ortom had publicly stated that he was ready to sacrifice his senatorial ambition for the sake of the survival of democracy where the likes of Garba Shehu and their collaborators would rather want it truncated.
“I am hopeful that you will appreciate that the most urgent task facing our nation is not infrastructure or the usual cheap talk about dividends of Democracy,” the Catholic cleric said.
And to come this far they believe that in their meeting they will know that there’s a need to bring this woman, who not only represents gender but also covers the youth, covers a particular zone that has been marginalised and also is a Christian for God’s sake.
“Malami’s misrepresentation of CPJ research is particularly alarming and tragically ironic given how frequently Nigerian journalists are accused and prosecuted for distributing alleged falsehoods.”
• Kawu Sulaiman Abduraman Kano South
NSCIA stated that Easter is a religious landmark that serves as a “springboard for spiritual renewal, religious re-awakening and general rebirth.”
Emails: info@serap-nigeria.org; news@serap-nigeria.org
“Among other legacies, we have diversified the economy.
“As you enter the 10th Assembly, I urge you to remember that nothing of consequence is achieved by individual effort alone in parliament.
The robbers reportedly invaded the market at 6:10 p.m., shooting sporadically to scare traders and customers away before stealing wares.
The Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) has named the policies of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) as one of the reasons for the scarcity of passport booklets In the country.
“The gunmen in the vehicle who refused to stop when the police operatives flagged them down, started shooting sporadically to escape police screening.
The incident happened on Thursday along Oraukwu-Adazi Road in the community, PREMIUM TIMES learnt.
The party also appointed acting executive members according to a statement signed by Ladi Iliya, national deputy chairperson and Kenedy Ahanotu, deputy national secretary.
He was said to have been nominated by the terrorists that attacked the Abuja-Kaduna bound train sometime in March 2022, which took scores of persons hostage.
“We are working on making FGC Kaduna a centre of information technology with the hosting of a SISCO training lab with certification for all graduates of the institution, and a telecommunication repair lab, among other plans to turn our students into global brands.
Although cricket isn’t as popular in North America as it is in other parts of the world, fans of this sport are still aware of how popular it is.
“The defendant was brought from the Federal Medical Centre Ebute-metta this morning my lord.
They were both being questioned in the February murder of Umesh Pal, a key witness in the 2005 murder of Raju Pal, a lawmaker belonging to the regional Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP).
“They are once again reminded to avail themselves of this opportunity at our Local Government offices to inspect these materials as earlier advised.
In 2019, India’s top court ordered that he should be moved to a jail in Gujarat state after it emerged that he planned attacks on a businessman from a prison in Uttar Pradesh where he was being held awaiting trial in another case.
However, apparent ceasefire agreements have been repeatedly violated during the conflict.
Abdullahi Sule of Nasarawa State who is also the Co-Chair of the Technical Working Group for the Committee spoke with State House correspondents after the meeting.
• Khalid Ibrahim Mustapha Kaduna North
"The contraband narcotics worth about N10 million and the means of conveyance were taken to the station at Seme and detained, pending further investigations..."
Mr Kalu, the resident, was also granted bail.
The corp members, house officers and medical consultants are all on the ground to attend to patients.”
Also, in a statement issued by Tanko Yunusa, the chief spokesperson of the Obi-Datti Campaign Council on Wednesday, it described the leaked audio in circulation as a “fake doctored audio call”.
President Muhammadu Buhari whose government had sought had targeted the property for confiscation was one of the guests.
It was neither intended to make light of the significance of the season nor to inordinately exploit the unmatched sacrifice of Jesus Christ.
The minister said these were some of the challenges unseen to members of the public, adding that both the road and the pipeline were important, hence they had to be taken in sequence and order.
“This is the reason for organising spelling competitions among Nigerian school students, to promote accurate spelling of the commonly used English words and improve the knowledge of students.
He was also ordered to pay £500 in compensation to his son, whose name was withheld by the court because of his age, and costs in the sum of £250.
For this, the Command Provost has been directed to immediately commence disciplinary action against the officers concerned,” he tweeted.
It added that the NEC constituted a disciplinary committee comprising the National Youth Leader, Kennedy Ahanotu; Acting National Publicity Secretary, Obiora Ifoh, and Acting National Legal Adviser, Edun Kehinde, as members.
We started as a dominant political party in 1999, and since then, we have been receding.
“The non-disclosure by Bola Ahmed Tinubu in the INEC Form EC9 of his dual citizenship of his voluntary acquisition of the citizenship of Guinea amounts to Perjury”.
This motivated us at Good Deed to organise this acquisition programme to empower people, especially young women in the Chika community,” he said.
He used to have two or three persons as bodyguard.”
“I told him I wasn’t going to do either especially now that the probe panel was in place,” the author wrote in the memoir.
The APP presidential candidate, Nnadi Osita, polled 12,839 votes in the election.
The originating summons, marked: FHC/ABJ/CS/231/2023, was dated and filed on 8 March, with EFCC, CBN and GTB listed as 1st to 3rd defendants respectively.
Supplementary Elections: Voter apathy characterises exercise in parts of Rivers
Recall that Mr Oweibo had, on 22 February, granted an interim forfeiture, following an ex parte motion filed by the anti-graft agency, seeking to seize 14 properties located in Lagos, Abuja and the United Arab Emirates (UAE).
“The media unconsciously leaves a lot of people behind, a lot of persons with disability.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) recalls that a mob on Monday stoned Mr Olorunfemi to death when his alleged reckless driving caused an accident that resulted in the death of two persons and injuries to six others.
Aggrieved aspirants in the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship primary election in Kogi State have asked the Federal High Court in Abuja to cancel the outcome of the exercise.
She had no tummy to tuck,” he said.
“Why do I say so?
The group says zoning the position to the South-east is in the interest of fairness and equity.
Mr Sanwo-Olu also blamed the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing and National Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA), for allegedly granting extension of the line of Banana Island.
He said that the commission viewed the circulation of the posters and statements as cheap blackmail aimed at hoodwinking those who were not abreast of the details of the case.
Former RUF soldier, ex-girlfriend of Massaquoi admit he was in Liberia in 2001
He said members of political parties cannot be suspended arbitrarily without compliance with the political party’s guidelines.
INEC also barred Mr Ari from its premises immediately.
“If we set that nebulous figure of 17 million housing deficit against the verifiable household data of 35 million Households, it would suggest that almost half of the population is in deficit of housing,” he said.
And that is the fund with which if you have an accident or disease condition or debt or disability in the course of work, you can make claim, like an insurance claim.
The students’ union said the victim was said to have been declared “Brought in Dead (BOD)” at the Emergency Medical Department of the university’s teaching hospital.
“A young lawyer from my state,” apparently referring to Mr Ekpenyong, “has been petitioning the EFCC accusing me of corruption,” Mr Akpabio explained why he was invited by the EFCC.
Mr Keyamo, who is also the campaign spokesperson for the Bola Tinubu presidential campaign, filed a petition against Atiku over allegation of using special purpose vehicles to siphon Nigeria’s money.
The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has cancelled the Ikono/Ini Federal Constituency rerun election in Akwa Ibom State because of violence.
The PDP Acting National Chairman, Umar Damagum, commended the PDP-GF for consistently contributing to the development of the party and projecting it in the areas of good governance.
He recalled that on appeal, the Court of Appeal described the suit as an abuse of court process.
Our democracy is stronger when we all participate in the political process with patriotism.
According to Mr Balogun, Sustainable Climate Smart Commercial Goat/Sheep farming is an emerging agribusiness that can be developed into an efficient value chain.
He said the police “repelled the armed robbery gang and arrested one of the gang members.”
“You can exercise the right of lien, but not that you can collect the property and start using it,” Mr Adodo said.
He noted that he will drop out of the race if the ruling party decides to zone the position out of North-central.
Hundreds of soldiers in scarlet uniforms and black bearskin hats lined the route along The Mall, the grand boulevard to Buckingham Palace.
If the court doesn’t dissolve the union, I will run away with my kids,” she said as she burst into tears.
Mr Adeshina said the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) built and completed, since 2016, 17 Command Office Complexes across Nigeria, with another four ongoings (Rivers, Kogi, Bauchi and Ondo).
“Any student found wandering around the university premises does so at his/her own risk,” the university added.
Mr Tinubu spoke in a message from his media office on Sunday congratulating the leader of pan-Yoruba socio-political group, Afenifere, on his 95th birthday.
He urged full trust in the Almighty God for strength and direction as the family prepares for the final rites of the deceased.
It noted that the poll was marred by over-voting.
The judge, Mojisola Dada, adjourned the case until 3 July to continue the trial.
Mr Olorunfemi was beaten to death by a mob who reacted to the deceased’s reckless driving which resulted in the death of two persons and injuring several others.
The governors will serve as panellists at a policy conversation in Abuja, which is jointly organised by the Abuja-based Agora Policy and the Africa Programme of the US-based Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.
Easter is about Renewed Hope and Redemption.
“IPAC calls on all relevant stakeholders to embark on deliberate actions that will help to reconcile, heal and unite the nation.
His nephew-Davido had previously accompanied him when he got his victory in 2022.
It said that 33 more people were wounded and in “stable condition” in the regional capital Ouahigouya’s university hospital.
Mr Martins told the court that the defendant committed the offences on 9 March at about 7 a.m. on Shogunle Level Crossing, Ikeja.
The PDP produced the presiding officers from 1999 until 2015 when it lost power to the APC which had majority in the two chambers that year.
During his presentation on the sustainability of aviation industry in Nigeria, the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) Director General, Shuaibu Nuhu, noted that the main challenges bedevilling the Nigerian aviation industry include operational costs, debts, poor access to foreign exchange, and high cost of aviation fuel.
“This will go against the doctrine of separation of powers,” he said.
The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, has urged senators-elect and members-elect of the 10th National Assembly to engage in discourse that must be unimpeachable.
On the falling of a petrol tanker on Udu Bridge, Mr Aniagwu appealed to residents to be patient, saying that efforts were on to evacuate the tanker for free flow of traffic.
The President of the Association of Resident Doctors (ARD) at the National Hospital, Abuja chapter, Maruf Alao, said the doctors are not happy to down tools but that the situation forced them to.
In July 2022, the Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria (HURIWA) described the $1billion annual allocation for the National Social Investment Programme of the Federal Government as “the single biggest fraud in Africa.”
The official, who refused to give an identity, declined to comment on the matter.
FAAN in its statement explained that the Murtala Mohammed Airport land was acquired for public use by the federal government through the Lands Acquisition Ordinance by FGN official gazettes in 1944, 1972, and 1975 respectively.
In court, he was shown an email he received ahead of a 2013 tax audit, in which an ICIL accountant proposed creating new payment vouchers to justify certain expenses.
Did we think that the political class had changed its ways?
“Ogun state is not a ground for criminals to settle.
The election took place during the 27th annual conference of the association which was held at Baze University, a private tertiary institution that is located in Abuja, Nigeria’s Federal Capital Territory.
He scored a total of 8,794,726 votes.
The former senator was accused of working against the party because he lost his polling unit, ward and local government area to the opposition.
“Justice Idigbe was one of the finest jurists that ever sat on the Supreme Court bench,” the former Head of State recalled.
Similarly, the Nigeria Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB) won the Most Compliant Agencies for 2022 Executive Order 01 (compliance), with the Executive Secretary, Simbi Wabote, in attendance to receive the award.
In the letter, Mr Lukman accused the duo of running the party with discretionary power without recourse to the members of the NWC.
The new development is coming as the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) is rounding off the 2023 edition of its entrance examinations into tertiary institutions.
Since his return to the country, Mr Tinubu’s residence in the Asokoro district of Abuja has been a beehive of activities as APC stakeholders, including Mr Adamu, its national chairman, had continued to throng the place for consultations.
He said: “Because, those who are into kidnapping, insurgency and rubbery must have taken one of these intoxicants which help them to perpetrated their evil acts.”
You hide your strength in your presentation as a woman, it doesn’t mean that we don’t give blows.
Life Member Nigerian Institute of International Affairs Grand Patron of the Nigerian Feminist Law Journal
The rest were Thomas Nkoro (Obingwa West), Okey Igwe (Umunneochi), Chikwendu Kalu (Isiala Ngwa South) Obinna Ichitta (Aba South) and Chijioke Chukwu (Minority Leader – Bende North).
“By the end of April, India’s population is expected to reach 1,425,775,850 people, with projections indicating further growth for several decades more.
Details of the case as contained in the tribunal judgement said that Mr Fagbewesa was scheduled to return from Lagos, Nigeria, to Heathrow Airport, UK on 11 February 2020 but the flight was delayed due to bad weather.
“As our induction and inauguration ceremonies draw near, I am available to interact with you personally and privately at your convenience.
He said that the remaining five per cent of the allocation would be used for staff salaries and allowances, project monitoring and zonal capital projects.
The Nigerian man, before he was jailed for three years, had told the London court that his action was a move to instil standards in his son.
But in less than one year of her second coming, Ms Umar exhibited the same traits of malfeasance that led to her sack under Jonathan.
Although Mr Obi did not refer to his arrest, harassment and subsequent detention by the London immigration officials at Heathrow Airport a fortnight ago, this is the first time he would speak out since the incident occurred.
The adjustment in the date of the UTME was to accommodate some other major and critical national assignments.
The group added that the government should prevent further degeneracy development, saying the recent abduction of 10 school children in Awon Community of Kachia Local Government Area of Kaduna State, is disturbing.
They were not allowed access to a lawyer.
NDLEA intercepts illicit drugs in imported car, food items
He said the devastating effects of climate change had made it expedient for nations to take action on mitigation and adaptation to emerging trends.
“We desperately need a humanitarian pause so that wounded and sick civilians can reach hospitals,” Mr Dujarric said, adding “people in Khartoum have been unable to safely leave their homes to buy food and other essential  items for days.”
But the Minister of Labour and Employment, Chris Ngige, described the doctors’ demands as “absurd”.
It comes as a repeat of his previous days-long capture by kidnappers some months after stepping down as NBA president in October 2014.
He recalled that in 2019, lawmakers did not only vote for the current Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila, they spent their money to assist with logistics.
After the service, Charles and Camilla will depart in the four-tonne Gold State Coach built for George III, the last king of Britain’s American colonies, riding to Buckingham Palace in a one-mile procession of 4,000 military personnel from 39 nations.
The latest attack comes about two days after gunmen abducted another unidentified man close to the location of the previous attack in the same council area.
The citizens will then be airlifted from Egypt to Nigeria, an official has said.
Sudan Unrest: Help us continue our studies, evacuated students beg govt
She also expressed deep concerns over the prevalent craving and preference for materialism at the expense of humanity, one which she said can only be addressed through moral re-orientation, “part of which UNILAG in Town will help to achieve in the long run.”
Mr Damagum called on the judiciary to ensure justice was done on the ongoing election petitions on the presidential election before it.
Mr Maduabum said the outgoing governors of the party would also be honoured during the ceremony for all their services to the forum.
“I accidentally spilt some liquid on my new MacBook Pro.
Buhari’s top aide Gambari seeks support for incoming govt, says elections are over
With these bioactive substances in livestock feeds, she said, it will help develop the immune system of the livestock, preventing the animals from falling sick.
“As we celebrate this season with our families, neighbours and communities, let us do so in love, compassion, kindness, resilience and forgiveness.
Delta lawmaker, Waive, declares for Reps Deputy Speakership
The rest are the Action Alliance (AA), the Action Peoples Party (APP) and the Allied Peoples Movement (APM).
“Side effects from the fast rise in policy rates are becoming apparent, as banking sector vulnerabilities have come into focus and fears of contagion have risen across the broader financial sector, including nonbank financial institutions.
The defence also sought to have Mr RK’s sentence reviewed.
“The circumstances of his death make it even more painful.
The event was witnessed by the Chief of Defence Staff, Lucky Irabor, the family of the officer and some personal staff of the president.
“But then after that, we went through a period where everything goes as far as drug is concerned in this country.”
He said the officers’ action was “barbaric” and “does not portray the police in a good light at all”.
The governor argued that the Igbos had made “immense contributions” to national development given that they reside in every part of Nigeria, but regretted that the conspiracy around them was “very grave.”
“Gemade lost his polling unit, ward and local government area to the opposition, and Shija colluded with PDP against the party.
“I spent three months having sleepless nights when Faiza Ahmed was in captivity in the hands of the bandits.
He said all the emergency agencies were on their way to the scene of the incident.
“In addition to our existing Upstream activities, we are also deepening exploration activities of the Nation’s frontier Basins using the best industry standards and technologies which are already yielding results such as the Kolmani discovery, and we are hopeful that the recent spud-in of the EBENYI A in Nasarawa State will yield positive result as well.
The price-to-earnings (PE) of the lender is currently 2x, while its earnings per share (EPS) is N5.4.
She thanked USAID for financial support, Adetiloye Oniyire, Jhpiego country director and the management team for their assurance to deliver.
The governor also said that his administration would continue to be committed to workers’ welfare.
In Lagos, a policeman stood idly by as an APC spokesperson threatened members of a particular ethnic group who he believed would vote for the opposition “.
As of 1 a.m., before the adjournment, only results of relevant polling units in 10 out of 20 local governments had been announced with the PDP candidate, Governor Ahmadu Fintiri, still in the lead, Daily Trust reported
The official said vaccines play a critical role in combating antimicrobial resistance, noting that they can reduce antibiotic use by preventing bacterial infections in the first place, “such as with the pneumococcal and meningococcal vaccines, and can also prevent viral infections such as flu, which can provoke secondary infections requiring antibiotics.”
Atiku said the US’s new position contradicted its stance as a defender of democracy.
A Nigerian airline, Air Peace, has accused officials of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and the Trade Union Congress (TUC) of storming the Murtala Mohammed International Airport, Lagos, to disrupt their operations on Wednesday morning.
She told UK police that after his father’s wife and the other child left the property in Croydon, he began to act differently towards her.
The commission was to proceed with hearing when a lawyer from the AGF office, Mr Kaswe, announced Nigeria’s chief law officer’s decision to take over the case.
Presidential election: Buhari didn’t confer any advantage on APC — Lai Mohammed
“We can replicate what is happening (in Lagos) in other states.”
Members of the unions laid siege to the Murtala Mohammed International Airport, Lagos, resulting in gridlocks around the airport and its environs.
The statement said some top members of the party in the state have been invited by the Inspector General of Police on trumped-up charges.
“The commission deployed two national commissioners to Adamawa, one to Sokoto state and one to Rivers.
The ownership, custody, and management, is vested in the Oba as an institution.
“He has served as State Secretary of Peoples Democratic Party, Commissioner and member of Enugu State Executive Council, National Commissioner, Nigerian Communications Commission, Board member, National Drug Law Enforcement Agency and more recently, a governorship aspirant on the APGA platform in the 2023 elections.
Soyinka accuses ‘Obidients’ of fascism, says they don’t ‘entertain corrective criticism’
Yet, the potential they carry and their cheap prices have not been matched with investors’ interest.
The Independent National Electoral Commission’s (INEC) counsel, Abubakar Mahmoud, a SAN, pledged to hasten the proceedings.
From what percentage of these polling units did she get her reports and how credible were these sources?
The Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, disclosed this while briefing State House correspondents after the meeting of the council presided over by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on Wednesday at the Presidential Villa, Abuja.
On her part, Emana Cobham, another elderly woman, said they took so much risk in the course of sweeping the streets.
“It should be suspended until they (government) are able to restore security and all our IDPs go back to their ancestral lands to give all of them opportunities to be counted in the homes of birth.
He said the region deserves the speaker and deputy senate president because of the number of lawmakers-elect from there and large number of votes it gave the party during the 25 February presidential election.
“The party’s suspended Deputy National Chairman, Mr Lamidi Apapa has approached all election tribunals wherein LP has pending matters, including that of our presidential candidate, Mr Peter Obi, asking for withdrawal of cases.
While recognising that Easter is about renewed hope and a glorious future, the president joined Christians in Nigeria and around the world to celebrate the occasion, which commemorated the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ, signposting his victory over death.
The Masters is the most prestigious golf tournament in the world, and it takes place every spring in Augusta, Georgia.
Speakership Race: I’ll adhere to zoning by APC – Kwara lawmaker
Ukraine has been at war since the invasion of the country by Russia in February 2022.
“The suspects in their various confessions mentioned some of their cohorts currently at large, who participated actively in the crime,” Ms Onovwakpoyeya said.
Conferred with Honorary Chieftaincy Title of Olu-Omo (the paramount child) of Egbaland by His Royal Highness, the Alake of Egbaland and the entire Egba Community.
“It is not only in the office of the Auditor-General but I don’t know in what capacity one can act beyond the time limit without recourse to the House,” he said.
If we do Muslim/Muslim, questions are going to be raised.
The only way out is to deploy tact and diplomacy.
The Eaglets came from behind twice before beating South Africa 3-2 in an entertaining clash at the Stade Mohamed-Hamlaou.
Meanwhile, the Centre for Democracy and Development (CDD) and YIAGA Africa have condemned the action of the Adamawa REC.
“Preliminary investigation revealed that the driver of a white Camry car lost control due to overspeeding and hit a commercial tricycle from the rear while the tricycle went off balance and obstructed another upcoming fully loaded Mazda commercial bus going to Iyana-Ipaja,” Mr Adebayo said.
Anietie Usen, an award-winning journalist and author of Audacious Journalism: The Art, Style & Depth, shared his journalism experiences with the journalists and told them that self-development, building contacts, and having great reputation are the keys to career success.
According to Argentina’s foreign ministry, “this international commercial operation opens the doors of the African market to the radar technology sector, and allows it to strengthen its position and prestige as a responsible provider of highly complex technology.” It added that there are prospects to expand exports of this type to other nations.
Former Kaduna Central District senator, Shehu Sani, and a former President of the Performing Musicians Association of Nigeria, Chukuwudi Oputa, popularly known as Charly Boy, have added their voices to the controversies over the positions of two of Nigeria’s literature icons on contemporary natiinal political issues.
The decision to pull out was, however, revoked when a domestic court ruled such a move would have been unconstitutional.
As clashes continue, Sudanese citizens are also trying to flee the fighting.
Man jailed for seven years for pouring acid on ex-girlfriend, lover
There are 48,075 affected eligible voters in the 90 polling units where the election is taking place.
On agricultural policies like the Anchor Borrowers Program launched in 2015, Mr Akinbajo said the problem of the programme was the lack of transparency.
Mr Osinbajo said, “He (Ajibola) sold every property he had in Lagos and moved to his home in Abeokuta.
Don’t grant Emefiele study leave to flee Nigeria, Governor tells Buhari
The judge, consequently, struck down Sections 839, 842, 843, 844, 845, 846, 847, 848 and Section 851 of the CAMA 2020, declaring same to be null and void, having been inconsistent with the provisions of the constitution.
In his ruling, the three-man tribunal headed by Hamidu Kunaza, agreed with the petitioners and struck out the petitions.
The counsel to the Abacha family, Reuben Atabo, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), filed a case against Mr El-Rufai and three others at the Kaduna State High Court.
“We are glad that the leadership of the ruling party recognizes that the opposition political parties in the House are very key in the formation of the next leadership of the House, hence this coalition shall continue to consult with all the opposition parties,” the statement said.
The party also added that the petitioners did not provide the particulars of polling units where any irregularity or non-compliance took place.
“The report finds failures of strategy, prevention, response and remediation by oil companies,” the commission said.
While some Nigerians lauded the move, describing it as a step towards improving Nigeria’s safety and emergency response across airports in the country, several Nigerians, including a former minister of Education, Oby Ezekwesili, expressed concerns about the actual cost of the vehicles.
SERAP noted that the “damning revelations also suggest your government is failing to prevent and combat the plundering of Nigeria’s wealth and natural resources, name and bring suspected perpetrators to account and recover any proceeds of crime.
With an acceleration rate of 0-80 km per hour in 30 seconds, the agency explained that each of the trucks possessed the limitless capacity to discharge while in motion and that they are also equipped with under chassis nozzles to tackle running fuel fire.
“The prosecutor made a terrible claim against me and he has already brought policemen to arrest me.
The Sultan of Sokoto, Sa’ad Abubakar, represented by the District Head of Sokoto-North, Malami Maccido, appreciated the investors, assuring that the Sultanate Council will continue to support farmers in the state.
He explained that factors such as desertification and insecurity are also some of the challenges that affected some of the enrollees of the ABP from paying back their loans.
The FHC, as part of its drive for capacity and human development, recently launched an electronic filing platform.
It is horrendous, unacceptable, most condemnable, and must never go unpunished.
He said the group is demanding the “sack, arrest and prosecution of Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, cancellation of the presidential election of 25th February 2023, compensation of all victims of electoral violence, establishment of a Truth and Reconciliation Committee in Lagos and other flashpoints of violence.
It said Wuse II, a metropolitan area, typically had higher prices than Nyanya, an outskirt market.
NAN reports that while the former vice president came second with 6,984,520 votes, Peter Obi of the Labour Party (LP) came third with 6,101,533 votes.
Amed robbers, on Wednesday, killed a trader during a raid on a phone market, known as Computer village, in Abeokuta, capital of Ogun State.
“My Honourable colleagues, like we all did, I have battled for my ticket, went to the poll on February 25, unlike many I was forced into a rerun on April 15.
They are now to take their tests on 6 May.
The remaining 23 kidnapped victims only regained their freedom after six months in captivity on 5 October 2022, following the federal government’sintervention.
“What we are expecting from you people is to give us a fair play, at least if nothing, to mention that a particular position is zoned and anybody in that zone can’t participate,” Mr Yari said.
“They took people from the playground and then went into the houses,” Mr Ishaku was quoted to have said.
In his acceptance speech, the governor promised to deliver more democratic dividends for the development of the state.
“Also included were convicts serving three years and above and have less than six months to serve.
On a quarter-on-quarter basis, this grew by 1.35 per cent.
READ EFCC’S FULL STATEMENT
Refuting Atiku’s claims of electoral malpractices comprising alleged voter suppression, manipulation of votes and Bimodal Voters Accreditation System (BVAS) machines in favour of Mr Tinubu, INEC said: “No votes were suppressed.”
Good governance and accountability bring about economic growth and development must show in the citizens’ quality of life,” he said.
Messrs Wike and Makinde, who are members of the opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), met with the president-elect alongside other governors of the All Progressives Congress (APC).
Nor did he condemn Prof. Mahmoud Yakubu’s insistence on flouting INEC’s guidelines, the Electoral Act and his rush to declare a winner.”
The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, has expressed sadness over the demise of a member-elect from Taraba State, Yushau Maihanci.
The NNPP spokesperson told Channels Television on Wednesday that using the 1999 template, the next senate president should be from the South-east region and that a Muslim from the North-west region should not be allowed to assume the office of the next senate president
Mr Akubueze made the announcement in a statement in Abuja on Friday.
” It is, therefore, in order to give those candidates, who were unable to sit for the examination owing to no fault of theirs, the opportunity to take the examination that the mock examination had been rescheduled to hold on Tuesday, 18 April, he said.
Mr Yakubu, therefore, asked whether the monies ought not to be released to him forthwith, or paid into an account under the control of the registry of the court, pending the outcome of the appeal lodged by the EFCC against the said judgment.
“We recall that at the meeting at the Villa, you asked us to slow down for the APC zoning arrangement.
President Buhari is still commended for assenting to some of the Bills but the focus of this letter is to call your attention to those he did not.
“The comparison of the second respondent (Mr Tinubu) with the first petitioner (Atiku) who had attained the eminent position of Vice President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria for eight years is totally unfounded.”
It added that it recommends widespread use of the vaccine, “among children in sub-Saharan Africa and other regions with moderate to high plasmodium falciparum malaria transmission.
The spokesperson for the AGF, Umar Gwandu could not be reached for comments on the judgement as of press time.
The presidential candidate got a total of 127,605 votes from the five states in the region, fewer votes than it got in Akwa Ibom, a state in the South-south.
While congratulating the members on their election victories, Mr Gbajabiamila called on them to justify the offices held by the quality of endeavours in that office.
AMS practices, principles, and interventions are critical steps towards containing and mitigating AMR,” she said.
The United Nations Economic Commission for Africa says that one in seven global maternal deaths occurs in Nigeria.
The majority two-to-one decision ordered INEC to issue the certificate of return to Mr Oyetola.
“Where there is a medical facility by the custodian of the defendant which can adequately take care of the medical condition of the defendant, then the application for bail on medical grounds will not be countenanced by the court,” he said.
“The President-elect should be sensitive to the times in Nigeria and ensure the country continues to thrive on the part of equity, unity and fairness to the tripod of Nigeria (Hausa, Igbo, Yoruba) and the geopolitical zones.
“He is, indeed, a man of great integrity.
But the suspended REC in an interview aired on Tuesday told the Hausa Service of the British Broadcasting Commission, BBC Hausa, that he had written to INEC.
The organization asked the outgoing president to set up a presidential panel of enquiry to investigate the missing crude oil.
Some candidates who spoke to PREMIUM TIMES said the examination process was seamless, while a candidate, who identified herself simply as Blessing, said her computer had a slight issue but was immediately fixed.
Sources within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NiDCOM) who have no clearance to speak to the media told this newspaper that evacuees would not return due to logistics and diplomatic issues.
However, the secession of South Sudan, which harbours about 75 percent of Sudan’s oilfields, drove the ancient country into stagflation.
So, the organisation is doing very well,” Mr Yari said.
“So they are going to be asking for the number three position but, can we afford another Muslim/Muslim?
Ribavirin, an antiviral drug, according to CDC, has been used with success in Lassa fever patients.
This, she said, she hopes to achieve by engaging and interfacing more with policy makers in the newsroom.
“They must not only shun violence but also ostracize their members who might want to engage in any form of violence.
This translates to import duty of 42 per cent or 44 per cent depending on the engine capacity of the vehicle,” he said.
He alleged Marzah arrested civilians, locked them up, and set fire to the buildings they were in.
“Imo Police Command is aware of this obscene video and we are currently investigating to identify the team of officers,” Mr Okoye, an assistant superintendent of police, said.
One AK-47 rifle, three pump action guns, two single barrel locally made guns, one locally made pistol, one cut-to-size gun, 50 rounds of 7.66mm live ammunition, 38 rounds of live cartridges, two AK-47 magazines and a walkie-talkie were among the items recovered from the suspects during the operation, the police said.
Residents of Janjala community in Kagarko area of Kaduna State said some soldiers arrived their community on Tuesday and arrested the traditional chief of the village and 10 other residents.
The All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate in Plateau, Nentawe Yilwatda, said nobody could pressurise him against challenging the outcome of the 18 March governorship election at the tribunal.
After losing the PDP ticket, Mr Mbadinuju defected to the now-defunct Alliance for Democracy, where he later emerged as the party’s governorship candidate, but lost in the general election.
However, unlike Mr Akpabio, Messrs Kalu and Izunaso are from the South-east, the region where Mr Tinubu scored his least number of votes in the presidential election.
Mr Ogbonna said human rights violations were recorded during the 18 March governorship and state House of Assembly elections, while voter suppression was recorded in Lagos, Rivers, Imo, Ebonyi, Bayelsa states.
It also goes to confirm that the Presidential spokesman does not only speak for Buhari but for some terrorist Fulani groups too.
“For example, the Auditor-General was appointed on September 22, 2022 and today is April 11, 2023, so his appointment in acting capacity had exceeded what the laws stipulate,” he said.
“From what we have been seeing and receiving from the media shows clearly that the work is in progress and very excellent.
The contract was awarded with seven and half percent VAT to be completed within a 12 months period.
The candidates of the Allied People’s Movement (APM) and Action Alliance (AA) are challenging the reelection of Governor Seyi Makinde
The local currency closed at N463.25 to a dollar at the close of business Tuesday, after it reached a high of N460.00 and hit a low of N466.00 at the official market segment, data published by FMDQ showed.
She said that the road caved in on Tuesday evening and the contractor was immediately mobilised to the site to begin an investigation towards quick solutions.
It also remains unclear if Mr Obi was deported and if he still possesses a valid UK access visa at the moment following his last week’s ordeal in London.
“Approaching the tribunals to withdraw all the cases lodged by Labour Party candidates is the height of subterfuge and treachery, and Nigerians will resist this ploy to plunge the nation into unnecessary turmoil.
Nigerian politician and a former presidential aspirant, Ahmed Garba, wrote, “RIP Saint Obi.
“I am particularly delighted that this plant was designed and fabricated by Nigerian engineers..."
Two more planes are still to follow on Saturday, Spanish Defence Minister Margarita Robles was quoted as saying by the Europa Press news agency.
“This will lead to significant increment in the animal equipment holding since 2015 with a significant improvement in the fighting power as a result of the procurement of equipment and mission specific training,” he said.
Mr Tinubu polled 231,591 votes in Rivers State as against Mr Obi’s 175,071 votes, according to INEC.
Only 1.8% of Nigeria’s PHCs have required skilled birth attendants — Official
Mr Ari, a lawyer, had declared Aisha Dahiru, popularly called Binani, the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), as the winner of the governorship election in the state.
She eventually decided to in July 2018.
Amidst his London ordeal, Labour Party’s presidential candidate, Peter Obi, on Tuesday, said he will never “knowingly break the law” and that he is committed to challenging the 25 February election outcome.
They are Miriam Onuoha (APC, Imo) and Ben Kalu (APC, Abia).
A former Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, last year, also alleged that aspirants at the APC presidential primary in June 2022 offered money to delegates.
PREMIUM TIMES had reported that APC governors under the Progressives Governors Forum (PGF) proposed a zoning formula that involves zoning of the deputy speaker to any of South-east or South-south.
Read the full statement below
He did not choose to serve his own interests, but rather, the interests of the nation and the people of Rivers State.
He also disclosed that the minority group met with all the aspirants in the race to decide on who to back.
He is survived by a wife, a son, and his parents.
— Peter Obi (@PeterObi) April 18, 2023
Speakership Race: Ex-Reps endorse Betara
“Aggrieved officers should avail themselves of the existence of this investigative panel and come forward with substantiated proof that could aid the investigation.
The Nigerian Anthropological and Sociological-Practitioners Association (NASA) has elected new executive members to drive the association’s agenda.
Inaugurating the committees, Kadaria Ahmed, a member of the IPI Nigeria’s Board of Trustees (BOT), noted that the challenges ahead of the executive committee are enormous and that it is a right decision to constitute the committees to help drive the organisation’s objectives.
Can you disclose who got this contract and the company’s directors?
Other lawmakers, including Sada Soli (APC, Katsina), Ademorin Kuye (APC, Lagos), Olajide Jimoh (APC, Lagos) and others, also spoke in support of the motion and condemned ING.
He also met with the Commissioner of Police in Rivers State during the visit to Port Harcourt.
Misuse of power by the political class creates the conditions for violence.
Olufisoye Adenitan of Federal Radio Corporation of Nigeria (FRCN), explained that she is determined to be intentional about women’s rights and issues and use her role as a female journalist to change stereotypes against women.
• Onawo Mohammed Ogoshi Nasarawa South
He equally prayed to God to give his family the fortitude to bear the loss
LP’s Mr Obi won two regions (South-east and South-south) while PDP’s Atiku scored more votes in only one region (North-east).
Mr Abang further held that based on Section 108(3) of ACJA cited by Mr Osigwe, it was not mandatory that a court must make a consequential order to discharge and acquit defendants when a prosecution withdrew a charge.
The NBA, apart from disclosing its meeting with the Commissioner of Police in Rivers State, has kept mum on the efforts to secure Mr Wali’s release.
Ebonyi, where a new governor was elected to replace outgoing governor David Umahi, thus had the highest turnout in the south-east.
It said the labour unions had written to them on Tuesday and instructed them not to fly into Imo State from Wednesday because the state governor, Hope Uzodinma, allegedly disrupted the labour unions’ May Day celebration in the state on Monday.
The APC, the 4th respondent, urged the PEPC to reject the petition in its notice of preliminary objection marked: CA/PEPC/03/2023 and filed at PEPC’s Secretariat, Monday night, by Thomas Ojo, a member of the party’s legal team led by Lateef Fagbemi in Abuja.
AKIN ALABI [PHOTO: akinalabi.com]“You know how much it costs to hire a private jet?
These are important but first, keep us alive because only the living can enjoy infrastructure.
The company, which has been facing a torrid time in accessing foreign exchange in Nigeria, since the pandemic lockdowns depleted the nation’s dollar earnings from oil sales, highlighted in the same document that it would be prioritising “business continuity measures that reduce exposure to devaluation and currency liquidity.”
A man who made a woman his deputy, who made his own wife a senator?
The commissioner also urged residents to inform the police about threats to their safety in the state.
The little surgery at her back was successful.
I am still the Igwe Nnamenyi of Awkuzu, while Chief Okafor is an impostor.
On 21 February, Ms Asadu was arraigned before Nnewi Magistrate Court, which remanded her in prison for the alleged murder, according to Harrison Gwamnishu, a human rights activist, who raised alarm about the incident on Twitter on 8 April.
She was the Deputy Registrar and Head of Unit, Directorate of Information and Public Relations before her new appointment.
Meanwhile, while the protest was ongoing, the university management issued a circular announcing the suspension of academic activities for two weeks.
“I join his immediate family, associates, professional colleagues and particularly Ogun State Governor Dapo Abiodun and the good people of the state for the loss of this great son of the Gateway State and Nigeria.
“I commend Nigerians for believing in the process.
Mr Adejobi was reacting to the recent collapse of a building at the Police Barracks in Sango, Ibadan and some derelict structures scattered across police barracks in the country.
Mr Buhari said the money will be used to support poor Nigerians likely to be worst affected by the planned removal of premium motor spirit (petrol) subsidy, and that the fund will be disbursed to beneficiaries through their bank accounts.
Former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar has called for the revamping of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to regain its important and dominant leadership role in Nigeria and Africa.
“All the candidates for the election in Lagos State were Lagosians or Yoruba.
This time, the Nigerian foodpreneur aims to break the Guinness World record of 87 hours, 45 minutes, and 00 seconds set by Chef Lata Tondon in Rewa, India, in 2019.
He also encouraged the senators-elect to come up with policies that will promote unity and peaceful coexistence in the country when they are finally inaugurated into the 10th assembly.
This process has been completed since last October when the Oyo Mesi chose a prince by consensus and forwarded the decision to Governor Seyi Makinde, PREMIUM TIMES can report.
He said the primary election is scheduled for Sunday at the state capital, Lokoja.
According to Mr Buhari, the school seeks to provide a comprehensive and legal institutional framework to provide specialised training for police officers.
“For someone like me who is a member of the minority party, I will assure Nigerians that we will provide a robust opposition but we will do it in a way and manner that will add value to the Nigerian people,” he said.
The time was 9 a.m.
The police in Enugu State, South-east Nigeria, said they have busted a child stealing and trafficking syndicate in the state.
And so if some mishap had happened in the last eight years, thank God the eight years has expired.
I said I was ready to pay all the bills if he is discovered to have a fractured leg but if he is not diagnosed with such, he will buy the complete set of my car’s side mirror.
“I am happy to report that the council deliberated and the council approved the action plan presentation before the International Committee on Human Rights,” he said.
The Swedish government plans to ask parliament to authorize on Sunday the deployment of an armed unit to Sudan to support an evacuation mission, Foreign Minister Tobias Billström and Defense Minister Pål Jonson said on Saturday evening.
The Wole Soyinka Centre for Investigative Journalism (WSCIJ), on Wednesday, concluded a three-day residential training for 12 female journalists as part of its 2023 Reports Women Female Reporters Leadership Programme (FRLP) in Lagos.
He further said the petitioners should look at the fundamental cause, which is the refusal to pay the necessary fee as required by the law
Unilever ending production of Sunlight, Omo, Lux amid repositioning plan
“The government has not been folding its hands over the sea incursion in Ayetoro because the area mapping and project design embarked on by the Federal Government have been completed.
This newspaper reported that the Oyomesi, the kingmakers in the kingdom, forwarded the name of the selected candidate to the governor last year.
The recent brain drain in Nigeria’s health sector has led to shortages of health workers in various facilities across the country.
Yusuf Gagdi says the exclusion of his North-central region in the allocation of the presiding offices of the National Assembly by the ruling party is an act of injustice
Yakubu Chonoko Maikyau, OON, SAN PRESIDENT
The motion which was sponsored by the Chairman of the Senate Ad hoc Committee on Constitution Review, Ovie Omo-Agege, was in line with provisions of the Authentication Act.
Several cases, including kidnapping, murder and extortion, were registered against Mr Ahmed over the past two decades.
“But we have made progress from Zaria to Kano, that is, 137 kilometres, and the contractors tell us that by May 15 that site should be fully completed.
The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) emerged as the most searched entity between January and March, with Peter Obi and the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) closely following.
I am no longer certain but – first, we must rid ourselves of the tyranny of the ignorant and the opportunism of time-servers.
On his part, Mr Obi in a tweet wished “all Christians a happy celebration and pray that the message and blessings of the resurrection will remain with us.”
The Commissioner of Police in Lagos State, Idowu Owohunwa, has ordered the immediate removal of the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) at Okokomaiko Division over alleged extortion of members of the public by his operatives.
A local resident, who asked not to be named for security reasons, told PREMIUM TIMES over the phone that the terrorists invaded the community around 2:15 a.m. and started shooting sporadically.
The elders said the meeting was convened to review “the painful and agonising experiences” of Igbo in Lagos State during the just concluded general election.
The transnational demand for pangolin products drives the continued poaching and illicit trade.
The judge held that the APC’s suit failed.
Incidentally, unmistakable as the manifestations are, even core stakeholders appear dismissive.
In the letter, dated 25 April and addressed to the Director-General of NBC and signed by Yemisi Bamgbose, executive secretary of BON, the organization called on the NBC to take all necessary possible legal steps to ensure that the spectrum is not sold until necessary steps had been taken to protect.
The Senate noted that the delay in missions and renewal of Nigeria international passport by the Nigerian Immigration Service nationwide was resulting in untold hardships for Nigerians.
So, I later sneaked in and took away the legs so that I would not be caught with any evidence because I heard that Lukman had been arrested and he had mentioned my involvement in the case.”
GTB’s lawyer, Idaye Imbu, informed that a motion to regularise their processes had been filed and the court granted her prayer after it was not opposed by parties in the suit.
In his response, Mr Adamu pleaded with the aggrieved lawmakers to give the party time to act on their letter.
The programme will bring together journalism students, editors, local communities and experts on climate, ocean, and fisheries in The Gambia.
P&ID has denied both claims.
More and smarter investments in primary healthcare are needed now so that every woman and baby – no matter where they live – have the best chance of health and survival,” he said.
Chairperson of the PSC, Solomon Arase, said in a statement that no matter the offence, nobody, including Kuti, had the right to assault a police officer on official duty.
Mr Tinubu arrived at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport Abuja on Monday at about 4:15 p.m.
She said: “To set the record straight, there has been an ongoing communal crisis between Ezza and Izzi Communities for years.
He added that the government would ensure partnerships to support and collaborate with all concerned stakeholders towards ensuring the success of the country’s national feed security and economic diversification initiatives.
CBN Governor Emefiele superintended over the management of the country’s financial and monetary systems.
“Business sentiment remained subdued in April, despite a slight pick-up from March.
It is public knowledge that the 2023 elections were heavily rigged using some security operatives, money, federal might and electronic means.
Meanwhile, the Focal Person/Country representative, UN Decade of Action for Road Safety, Sydney Ibeanusi, said the government would continue to put the issue of road safety on the front burner.
Gabriel Daniel, a resident of Garki, said he didn’t think the 31 December deadline would be visible because presently it was only the old notes that were available.
She added that INEC did not have the power to void a declaration made as only the election petition tribunal has the power to void such a declaration.
Police in the area said a local council worker, Rhoda Jatau, posted the alleged blasphemous comment on Facebook.
“President Muhammadu Buhari recognizes the Supreme Court’s verdict on the July 16, 2022 governorship election in Osun State, as well the important role of the judiciary in deepening rule of law and democracy,” the statement by a presidential spokesperson, Femi Adesina, said on Tuesday.
My governor is a team player, a party man.
In a copy of the judgement seen by PREMIUM TIMES, the Senior Magistrate, A.S Muhammad, said “the defendants had common intention in publishing” the damaging article “and must have intended the natural consequences.”
The stock has appreciated by 18.9 per cent since then.
We have been on that issue for sometime.
The point is that she is Igbo like Peter Obi and wanted him to win for purely primordial reasons.
“The statement noted that this is meant to set the records straight, adding that though the ‘Advisory’ was issued before the gubernatorial election and subsequent inauguration of the Transition Committee (signed and dated the 060323), the ALGON chairman said.
The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) has extended the closing date for the 2023 direct entry (DE) registration.
We have a lot of passion for young people across the country.
Due to the increasing popularity of women’s soccer, the 2019 FIFA Women’s World Cup was held in France.
He said that one of the relatives of the patient had to go to Nasarawa State from Lagos early Thursday morning to get the drug.
“The Plateau State Commissioner of Police, Bartholomew N. Onyeka, assures the good people of Plateau State that the Command under his watch will continue do everything within it’s constitutional power to ensure the security of lives and properties of all the citizens of Plateau State.
He also stated that campaigning for the leadership of the National Assembly is expensive.
The Lagos state taskforce has begun the demolition of shanties along the Lekki Coastal area of the state.
Your engagement and involvement substantially changed the contours of our politics,” he said.
One of the most respected ekpe cultural masquerades, is adorned with peacock feathers,” said Mr Eniang.
The crisis involves two rival groups: the Sudanese army and a paramilitary group known as the RSF, or Rapid Support Forces.
The Advocacy for Societal Rights Advancement and Development Initiative (ASRADI) accused Mr Tinubu of perjury for refusing to disclose his alleged dual citizenship to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC).
“The late Ismail Akapo stood at a safe distance with some friends to watch what was going on.
The court began its pre-hearing session on 8 May.
The bank’s PE ratio at the last trading session was 2.1x, while its EPS is N5.36.
Kaduna State governor Nasir El-Rufai has dispelled the rumours of him jostling to become the Chief of Staff to the President-elect, Bola Tinubu.
Alleged graves robber arrested with human skull in Ogun
He said the fact that the APC candidate had a prepared acceptance speech was a pointer to the guarantee of a false victory which the INEC must have promised her.
The two concluding games of the matchday 15 fixtures of the Nigeria Premier League, NPFL, were played in Uyo on Monday.
“There is an additional 2 per cent and 4 per cent green tax, depending on the engine capacity of the vehicle.
Recently, the rising cost of aviation fuel and forex scarcity have worsened performance of operators in the sector in recent times.
This year’s program which came under the motif:“ Champion Building Edition” focuses on building the capacity of female journalists to strategically engage the media, its stakeholders and society at large through impactful projects and profound investigative stories.
He promised to reform the budgetary process to achieve efficiency.
“It would appear that a record discharge of toxic sludge from our notorious smut factory is currently clogging the streets and sewers of the Republic of Liars.
We shall add the following pointer for this particular electoral tussle – the news may be unpleasant, but here it comes.
READ EFCC’S STATEMENT IN FULL
“But contesting on three separate platforms against the ruling party as they did, the victory of the APC was logically and empirically inevitable,” he wrote.
[PHOTO CREDIT: Official webpage of Court of Appeal]Ms Bolaji-Yusuf, the only female member of the panel of the Presidential Election Petition Court, hails from Oyo-West Local Government Area of Oyo State, South-west Nigeria.
The IGP is discussing with the Police Trust Fund and relevant MDAs – Ministry of Police Affairs.
The presidential aide stated this while receiving members of the “Arewa Young Lawyers’ Forum (AYLF),” the umbrella body for all young lawyers in the northern part of Nigeria, on Thursday in Abuja.
“The aim of the conference that would bring people from different walks of life is to showcase the Igbo worldview, their spirituality, arts, technology, science, and other concepts that will inform the world on the rich cultural heritage of the Igbo people.
And I tell you, it was a testament to the fact that the woman in me is steel.
The presidential candidate of Labour Party, Peter Obi, on Monday spoke on the leaked audio where he was discussing with the founder of Living Faith Church Worldwide, David Oyedepo, insisting that he did not call the 25 presidential election a “religious war.”
The listed A-level results include a university diploma, Ordinary National Diploma (OND), National Diploma (ND), Nigeria Certificate in Education (NCE), Higher National Diploma (HND) and a university degree.
Mr Keyamo said he had made enough money to purchase the properties long before his appointment as a minister.
Equally, Tunji Raheem, a lawmaker from Kwara State, has also declared interest in the race.
UN Chief, African leaders to hold virtual talks on Sudan crisis
Other Senators-elect who are still in the race are Abdulaziz Yari (Zamfara), Orji Uzor Kalu (Abia), Osita Izunaso (Imo) Sani Musa (Niger) and Patrick Ndubueze (Imo).
The PDP, the party in power before the APC came 2015, ensured that the Senate President and Speaker were not of the same faith.
Mr Goje had earlier secured a court order restraining the party from investigating him.
Two other members of the party – Realwan Akpanachi and Yahaya Seidu-Nuhu – similarly filed a joint suit seeking the disqualification of Mr Usman-Ododo, and other public office holders, who participated in the 11 April primary election without resigning from their positions.
“Besides all of his official engagements as vice president, we all saw this attribute exhibited by him right from the campaigns, how he ensured that the right things were done,” he said.
The other aspirants include: Deputy Speaker Idris Wase (APC, Plateau), Yusuf Gagdi (APC, Plateau), Muktar Betara (APC, Borno), Sada Soli (APC, Katsina), Tunji Olawuyi (APC, Kwara) and Abubakar Makki (APC, Jigawa).
‘’The last time I used the new note was two weeks ago and it is really not available.
” The board’s mock examination was designed for the purpose of testing its preparedness and that of its partners for the UTME as well as give prospective candidates the opportunity to have hands-on experience of the CBT test environment.
Mr Kalu, who arrived Tinubu’s Asokoro residence in Abuja at 5:31p.m., decked in white attire and red cap, was ushered into a meeting with Mr Tinubu.
Mr Enahoro died in London on Tuesday at the age of 88.
But he made a U-turn to plead guilty to one count of wire fraud during a change of plea hearing at the US District Court for Northern Illinois this April, according to court documents obtained by PREMIUM TIMES.
The provisions of the contentious law, the lawyer argued trample on his “right to freedom of peaceful assembly and association” as guaranteed in section 40 of the constitution.
We have started trailing those involved and many are in custody.
Abubakar Mahmoud, INEC’s lawyer did not challenge the withdrawal of the petition.
He wants to hear from the student about what is happening.
Nigeria’s justice minister misrepresents CPJ research on attacks on journalists – CPJ
Earlier, the Deputy Commandant of MLAILPKC, Sunday Makolo, said the 4-weeks training was intense, comprehensive, and conducted in line with UN core pre-deployment training manuals and curriculums.
Zamfara State has, over the years, suffered massive terrorists’ attacks leading to the death and displacement of thousands of people in the state and other north-western states.
He said the police commissioner in the state, Kolo Yusuf, has reassured the family of those abducted that the command “would rescue them in good condition”.
He said: “They should give the evidence of my financial recklessness.
Mr Echono said the Fund was aware of the challenges facing institutions, especially the issue of people targeting academic centres, kidnapping children and disrupting academic activities.
It explained that although inflation has declined as central banks raised interest rates just as food and energy prices have come down, underlying price pressures are proving sticky in a number of economies.
The court, however, ordered the defendants to be present in court on the next adjourned date of 3 May and 4 May, which it has now changed to 4 May and 5 May.
Mr Iwuanyanwu, 80, also vowed to pursue the creation of an additional state in the South-east region of Nigeria.
“There is not just one way to contribute to the country and I will never stop working for Nigeria’s progress,” he said.
Jide Ojo says INEC can start the implementation of the Disability Act by ensuring that five per cent of ad hoc staff deployed for election duties are PWDs.
“This May Day is the last in the life of this administration.
He added that, to date, the secretariat is still being occupied by the agents of the Imo State Government.
According to Mr Ale, the medication the family procured in Nasarawa is currently being used to take care of the patients.
“I am glad that the State and Federal Government are yielding to the call for reform.
According to the Nigerian history, there is difference between normal flags and military colours.
Mr Shettima, who is a senator in the current assembly, promised to intervene to prevent a situation that will lead to rebellion by APC lawmakers.
Atiku, PDP seek live broadcast of election petition court proceedings
Hence, lawmakers from the North-east are also showing interest in the leadership race.
“When Mordi presented the bag, which he claimed contained food items for export, operatives noticed that in the course of searching the consignment, the side walls of the bag were unevenly bloated.
Responding, the Lagos governor endorsed Mr Akpabio’s candidacy and assured him of his support.
The senator has won re-election in the just concluded general election.
The Senate Chief Whip, Orji Kalu, has written to members of the National Working Committee (NWC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and 108 Senators-elect about his interest to become the Senate president.
An Appeal to Nigerians:
You may have to involve your financial advisor before making investment decisions.
Alhassan Doguwa, the majority leader of the House of Representatives, says the ongoing murder trial will not deny him the right to contest for the Speaker of the House—stating that he is covered by the principle of presumption of innocence.
“AON states that Max Air is one of the safest airlines in the world and should not be ridiculed because of this incident,” the statement said.
Mr Conde said he conferred Mr Tinubu with “Ambassador extraordinaire” because of the role that the latter played during his election in 2015.
It was fantastic,” Mr Eniang told PREMIUM TIMES about the airport reception for the peafowls.
Mr Tinubu, who accused the petitioners of pursuing two processes in respect of the same subject, urged the court to dismiss the petition.
The American magazine said Mr Tinubu accomplished a “no easy feat” by winning the Nigerian presidential election after “nearly two decades” of preparation.
We called her on the phone, but she didn’t pick up the call.
The project, according to the institution’s Vice-Chancellor, Folasade Ogunsola, is aimed at showcasing the creative talents and outputs of students and staff of the university.
Consequently, the tribunal ordered that Mr Oyetola be returned as governor of Osun State.
SERAP is seeking “an order of mandamus compelling INEC to promptly, thoroughly and effectively investigate reports of electoral violence and other electoral offences committed during the elections, identify suspected perpetrators and their sponsors, and ensure their effective prosecution.”
Both organisations believe the collaboration with FMARD on the summit will contribute to the important discourse about key issues and challenges facing the animal feed sector, and the agricultural sector in general.
PREMIUM TIMES reported that the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, on Thursday dismissed a suit seeking the nullification of the PDP’s delegates lists for the primary.
• Fasuyi Cyril Oluwole – Ekiti North
“Education is the main industry in our dear state, so promoting girl-child education is one priority we should all support.
Four out of the 11 remaining students of Federal Government College (FGC), Birnin-Yauri, Kebbi State, have regained their freedom from captors.
The Olukare of Ikare, last week, appointed an acting Chief Imam for the central mosque in the town, an action which drew flaks from the community and the state government.
According to him, the incident shows that the Lagos State building officers are not alive to their responsibilities, saying officers found culpable will also be sanctioned.
The international acclaimed novelist who supported Peter Obi of the Labour Party (LP) during the 25 February presidential election, claimed the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) could not have won the election if “results had been uploaded in real-time to the INEC portal.”
The full list of the assets is as follows:
“Every part of this country must be included and given the right to prominent positions in the coming administration.
The Committee of Supply, chaired by Deputy Speaker Idris Wase, considered the recommendation in the report and approved it.
The lawyer said robbery can only be said to have taken place when someone “steals something” with a weapon or anything that can harm the robbery victim.
However, the youth do not belong to any single party, no matter the temptation, he said.
The opposition supporters are going after Prof Wole Soyinka & the ruling party supporters are going after Chimamanda Adichie;The great literary giants are now in the ring of Nigeria’s political battle.This is a positive dev.
Adamawa Governorship: Fintiri’s re-election is victory for democracy – PDP
He said candidates must print their slips on or before Monday 24 April, adding that the examination body will be strict with the timing on the candidates’ slips.
The rapper who broke into the limelight with his release of ‘Picanto’ in 2022 featuring Zlatan and Ecko Miles performed his recent hit ‘DECLAN RICE’ and made the crowd shout out the lyrics especially the part “Ekelebe Stunner”
Supplementary governorship elections are being held in Kebbi and Adamawa states where they have earlier been declared inconclusive.
In addition, he asked for a declaration that the NPC currently lacked effective preparation and adequate publicity towards the conduct of a credible, effective and constitutional census in the country.
“The flight is expected to arrive in Abuja around 1:30 p.m. to 2 p.m. Nigerian time.” (NAN)
“With the side-lining of the South-east from producing the Presidential candidates of the major political parties before the general elections, the only means through which the zone can be compensated and given a sense of belonging is for the zone to produce the next Senate President.
Undeterred, he decided to seek out alternative options at Banex, a popular computer gadget and electronics hub in Abuja, the Nigerian capital.
He also said that he is not considering the position of the deputy senate president, noting that he has stepped down the two positions.
He jogged along the walkway that partitioned the well-manicured lawns in front of the house into green squares.
The others are the incumbent Deputy Speaker, Idris Wase (Plateau), Sada Soli (Katsina), Tajudeen Abbas (Kaduna), Muktar Betara (Borno) Tunji Olawuyi (Kwara), Abubakar Makki (Jigawa), Aminu Jaji (APC, Zamfara), Ben Kalu (Abia), Ado Doguwa (Kano) and Miriam Onuoha (Imo).
It also spotlights the fact that he failed to disclose his alleged dual citizenship to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC).
Tinubu met the 25% requirement in 30 states, Atiku in 21 and Obi in 15.
The accident, which occurred at 6.25 p.m. on 6 May, involved a Toyota car with registration number KSF122 FB and a Sino truck marked FZE 840 G.
Mr Sumaila will speak on the ocean and climate challenges in The Gambia.
NiMet anticipated a sunny atmosphere on Wednesday with few patches of clouds over the northern region with prospects of thunderstorms over parts of Kebbi, Zamfara, Sokoto, Bauchi, Gombe, Kaduna, Taraba, and Adamawa states later in the day.
Hushpuppi, who initially pleaded not guilty, changed his plea to guilty in April 2021, just before a full-blown trial was to begin.
In his response, Mr Abah said: “Apple warranty ba?
Senate Presidency: Umahi drops ambition, endorses Akpabio
He said the first petition against the outcome of the governorship election was filed by the Allied People’s Movement (APM) and its candidate, Adeniran Oluwaseyi, while the second was filed by Action Alliance (AA) and its candidate, Babatunde Ajala.
A five-member panel of Justices led by John Okoro granted leave in a ruling on the motion by the counsel to the federal government, Tijani Gazali, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN).
Candidates were expected to supply their NIN at the registration stage, but it was not a compulsory requirement in order to avoid denying many eligible candidates access to the portal/examination.
He explained that the drugs were hidden on the sides of a travelling bag containing food items, being sent to Kenya.
“The officers told us that our children are IPOB members, but I told them that none of my children was an IPOB member,” Mrs Victoria, the suspects’ mother, said.
Cahill was also shown an email that he received in December 2015 in which he was told that Alimi was requesting $50,000 to “spread around the places he will be going for us.”
The Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, disclosed this while briefing State House correspondents at the weekly meeting of the council chaired by President Muhammadu Buhari, on Wednesday, in Abuja.
A group, Justice House International Organisation, has urged the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) to sanction the Resident Electoral Commissioner in Adamawa State, Hudu Ari, over his “illegal conduct.”
Also, Atiku, in a statement he personally issued, commended Mr Adeleke for standing by him and the party in the general elections.
She however made a passionate appeal to all and sundry to assist in securing the release of the remaining seven students.
However, the actual amount of electricity exported will depend on the needs of Ukrainian consumers, said Galushchenko, adding that their own electricity consumers “unquestionably” remained their priority.
China’s approach has appeal because of its non-interference policy, although recent controversies have necessitated a charm offensive to reassure African allies.
The Governing Council of the University of Uyo has approved the appointment of Blossom Okorie as the substantive registrar of the institution.
In response, Aristegui has been the target of repeated verbal attacks and attempted smears by President Andrés Manuel López Obrador, who regularly uses his press briefings to lash out at perceived enemies in the media and civil society.
This is contained in a statement released on Saturday in Abuja by Chi Lael, head of Communications, Advocacy and Marketing of the programme in Nigeria.
In the judgement delivered in December 2021, Mr Ekwo held that CAN’s certificate of incorporation bears “Registered Trustees of the Christian Association of Nigeria” and not “Incorporated Trustees of Christian Association of Nigeria,” a name which the suit was filed with.
“I have seen a lot of wrongs in the National Assembly that need to be right.
In his statement Tuesday, Mr Otedola opened up on how he went bankrupt in 2008 and was betrayed by Mr Elumelu.
Meanwhile, a group supporting Mr Wase in the contest has called for the intervention of the National Executive Committee of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to review the proposed template for zoning of the presiding officers of the National Assembly.
He is always bragging about paying salaries.
On 15 April, the ruling party will hope to take more seats in the supplementary elections in 31 constituencies to gain a majority in the House and expand its majority in the Senate.
According to a gender parity survey conducted by the Centre, current data of organisations monitored across the print, broadcast and online media, shows that of 405 board members, only 110 are female (27 per cent), and out of 198 management staff, only 64 are female (32 per cent).
The report shows that the number of new confirmed cases increased from 38 in week 11, 2023 to 39 cases, while the fatalities decreased from 14 to two.
He was received at the airport by his running mate, Kashim Shettima, and some other party faithful.
“That is the ILO principles at decent work, especially for those rendering essential services.
In his inaugural speech, Mr Iwuanyanwu expressed delight over his endorsement as the president-general of the Igbo group, saying that “providence and the love of Igbos propelled” him to the position.
“We believe deepfake technology should be clearly labelled,” app owners said.
He said the board would continue to partner with relevant agencies of government to ensure that its candidates got the best.
Governor of Kano State, Abdullahi Ganduje, had recently announced that governors of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) have endorsed Mr Akpabio as the president of the Senate and Mr Jibril, his deputy.
Atewe is being prosecuted by the EFCC alongside Patrick Akpobolokemi, a former Director-General of Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, NIMASA, Kime Enzogu and Josephine Otuaga on a 22-count charge of conspiracy, stealing and money laundering.
In her case, Ms Brooks did not raise this issue before the BIA.
The chair of Lagos-listed Geregu Power Plc, Femi Otedola, has upped his interest in the conglomerate Transnational Corporation Plc (Transcorp) to 6.3 per cent, two separate notifications by his shareholders to his registrar, seen by PREMIUM TIMES, showed on Saturday.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the chairman of INEC, Mahmood Yakubu, had declared Tinubu winner after securing a majority of votes cast at the poll, Atiku second and Mr Obi third.
“The constitution does not provide for an interim national government and that is the point the Presidency has been hammering on and that is our stand.
The qualification date has been fixed for 9 May.
Police, IPOB members in shoot-out in Imo forest
“In short, the specimen of gentlemanliness.
The IGP also directed the Gombe State Police Commissioner, Etim Equa, to proceed to Adamawa to take charge.
His film credits include; “Apama”, “Game Fools Play”, “The King & the Crown”, “Johnbull & Rosekate”, and his latest, “Skelewu in America”.
Mr Otedola, who now holds 2.2 billion shares, comes next to UBA Nominees Limited in the ownership pecking order of the conglomerate, whose businesses encompass energy, oil and gas, and hospitality.
“That appears to be his thinking, yes,” Murray replied.
Mr Buhari said the provision of houses was one of the best ways to attack poverty, create prosperity and develop the economy.
He noted that the constitution of the party and its manifesto which does not preach religion, ethnicity, and tribal dichotomy, emphasised competence while providing qualitative leadership for Nigerians.
We have tried in vain to find out the offense of Benue people, but we found none, except that our people are responsible, law abiding citizens.
“It should be noted that the name of the centre which is Beautiful Beginning CBT Centre, Apo, Abuja, featured “Gwagwalada” rather than “Apo” hence misleading the candidates.”
Mr Nwosu, who owns a petrol station and a hotel in the community, was abducted on 31 March while he was at home with his wife and children, according to a report by the Punch newspaper.
“I will seize this opportunity to publicly call on the acting national chairman to look into what is happening in Kaduna State because all the ingredients for trouble and problems in the party are being put in place.
Nigeria’s Presidential Election Petition Court begins inaugural sitting (LIVE UPDATES)
In arguing their case in their final written address, their lawyer argued that the Nigerian Supreme Court had “decriminalised” defamation.
Mr Uzodimma, who was the sole contender in the primary election that took place in Owerri, polled 63,618 valid votes.
“In light of the foregoing, the Police hierarchy directed all the Commands Commissioners to collaborate with INEC in the prosecution of all electoral offences.
Atiku makes first appearance at Presidential Election Petition Court
Mrs Akande-Sadipe, the only female federal lawmaker from Oyo State at present, further said she was ready to focus on the work at hand and to move the assembly forward as a united one.
He said the Ninth Assembly has the moral burden to override the president on the bills, particularly those bills on the legislative arm.
“Nigeria Ports Authority is one of the 13 agencies under the ministry of transportation.
Atiku Abubakar, who was the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the just concluded 2023 general election, according to the News Agency of Nigeria, noted in his message that the “commemoration is a time for deep reflection.”
“I am the best among all other candidates, I have the capacity to unite Nigeria and I am the best to work with our president-elect for the best Interest of Nigeria.
The police spokesman said that the body of the deceased had been deposited at the state morgue for a post-mortem, while seven persons had been arrested and 12 motorcycles impounded in connection with the incident.
On how much funding was received from the World Bank for the execution of the planned exit, Mrs Ahmed said: “$800 million for the scale up of the National Social Investment Programme at the bank and it’s secured, it’s ready for this disbursement.”
Local media reported that he picked Babajide Sanwo-Olu and made him governor of Lagos State in 2019, despite entreaties from his party to allow Sanwo-Olu’s predecessor to continue for a second term.
A statement by the newspaper’s Editor-in-Chief, Musikilu Mojeed, gave the names of the new members of the ombudsman committee as Gbemiga Ogunleye, Ruqayyah Aliyu Yusuf and Udeme Nana.
I have strengthened my lobbying.
My dear Chief Clerk, may I seize this opportunity to commend your utmost dedication and resourcefulness which you have demonstrated with rare qualities of commitment and courage, while also upholding the cherished traditions of Public Service.
Thus, the APC may be concerned about its numerical strength, considering the history of rebellion in the National Assembly.
“WFP requires $190 million over the next six months to provide life-saving food and nutrition assistance to the most vulnerable people,” he said.
All of us rely on that salary because I’m the only one working.
The separatist group later suspended the order, in preference for the order to be implemented only on the days Mr Kanu appears in court.
NNPP – 19, 024
The flood of local publications came up after the alleged detection of ethylene oxide, a cancer-causing substance found in Indomie’s “special chicken” flavour in Taiwan, and Malaysia by health officials in both countries.
Hopefully, there is one in the work in the 9th Assembly and may be passed before the Assembly winds up.
“SERAP has also argued that there is need to recover such public funds collected by former governors.”
Mr Muhammad said Mr Dasuki polled 47,317 votes to beat the candidate of the APC, Bala Kokani, who scored 34,282 votes along with others.
In a message to commemorate the day, WHO Regional Director for Africa, Matshidiso Moeti said the disease killed 619,000 people in 2021, of which approximately 96 per cent lived in Africa.
I’ve been to over 20 States, and I’ve told my successor to also do the same.
I am sure that with you as one of its new members the American Academy will continue in the best way possible its research on the emerging problems that face our society today.
On the occasion of today’s commemoration of the 2023 World Press Freedom Day, the Nigerian National Committee of the Vienna-based International Press Institute (IPI) is asking the new government that will be inaugurated in Nigeria on May 29 to commit to creating a better operating environment for journalists and media organisations.
Oh God, our creator, we thank you for the gift of our dear country.
He noted that at Dunbar Creek in Georgia, US, the Igbo captives said no to slavery and walked into the sea in mass suicide.
It could not ascertain if the LP lawmakers-elect pledged support for the aspirant.
She had been dismissed once before from her position at MVS under pressure from the administration of former President Felipe Calderón, before being rehired after a public outcry.
By August of the same year, she gave an interview narrating her experience with Mr RK, her father.
So, we are going back to the drawing board to evaluate it and look at the possible quick way to resolve it.
This looks like a China truck and from my find the one that holds 12000 litres is about 80,000$.
Prosecutors want to pursue suspicions and leads that Orlandi, the daughter of a Curia employee and a Vatican citizen, was abducted or murdered.
Mrs Dahiru has her main rival in the election in Governor Ahmadu Fintiri of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), who scored the most votes during the main election on 18 March.
As the first quarter earnings season advances, more companies’ financial reports are expected, which could also determine the direction of trade this week.
“To ensure federal character as enshrined in the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999, as amended, and ethno-religious balancing, the senate president should be zoned to the South-east or South-south geo-political zones.
Mr Osoba described the late judge as a passionate personality whose interest in education and law cannot be rivalled.
“Her confessional statement led to the arrest of Blessing Ani around Shoprite Mall Enugu, where she was waiting to receive and further traffic the child,” Mr Ndukwe said.
While this is appropriate and commendable because it’s important for political office holders to account for their actions in office and EFCC is imbued with the power of investigation, however, this power must be exercised judiciously.
It does, and clearly so.
“Imo people are proud of Uzodimma’s signature projects, infrastructure development and economic policies.
The judge agreed that the Nigeria Broadcasting Code, being a subsidiary legislation that empowers an administrative body such as the NBC to enforce its provisions cannot confer judicial powers on the commission to impose criminal sanctions or penalties such as fines.
The Governor-elect of Akwa Ibom State, Umo Eno, has criticised the media coverage of the just concluded 2023 general elections in the state.
A passenger caught with over one hundred used children’s diapers and cash has been handed over to the police after LASTMA rescued three accident victims in the Iyana-Ipaja area of Lagos State.
So, I hope it will be sustained,” he said.
Murray described similar practices in the company’s accounts.
“Let me state on record and for the benefit of Nigerians and the committee that the allegations relating to the 48 million barrels are baseless.
“There, adequate tests and treatments were administered at the expense of the complainant/applicant (DSS) and he was diagnosed with (Moderate Obstructive Sleep Apnea) and use of Continuous Positive Airway Pressure (CPAP) was recommended among other options at the hospital.
At the close of the prosecution’s case, on 5 April 2022, the defendants filed a no-case submission, urging the court to dismiss the case against them on the grounds that the prosecution failed to lead any incriminating evidence against them.
NAN reports that, on 11 April, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate, Abdul-Azeez Adediran, known as Jandor, and Mr Rhodes-Vigour separately asked the tribunal to nullify Mr Sanwo-Olu’s re-election and declare them the winners.
Visitors, including a newspaper reporter, Nora Iwang, who went to buy medication in a pharmacy, were trapped around Nwaniba Road for hours on Monday night because of the shootout.
“It would be recalled that Aliko Dangote Foundation supported the Nigerian government with logistics support for the Nigerian volunteer health workers who supported the Ebola containment efforts in Liberia and Sierra Leone upon their return to the country in 2015.
Mr Shettima, who is a senator in the current assembly, promised to intervene to prevent a situation that will lead to rebellion by APC lawmakers ahead of the 13 June inauguration of the National Assembly.
He added that N2 billion had been allocated to teaching practice projects in the COEs, while N1 billion was allocated for the establishment of a diaspora centre that would be instituted at the University of Ibadan.
The INEC headquarters also recommended the suspension and investigation of Mr Ari.
In January, Ministry of Justice spokesperson Umaru Gwandu similarly mischaracterized CPJ’s research at an event on the safety of journalists during elections.
“Congratulating its outcome, President Biden, tarnishes America’s self-proclaimed commitment to democracy.
Reuters reported that the spokesperson for Shell declined comment but that of Eni blamed the oil spills on theft aimed at feeding illegal refineries, illegal export and sabotage, adding that the company undertook to remedy all spills.
They concluded by discussing Kenya’s current political and economic situation and prospects.
The suit was prosecuted by Femi Falana, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) and human rights activist.
If by chance anybody perceived us to be a hostile state, please we are a renewed hope of Benue, a hospitable, friendly, law and order people.
This was higher than the sum of N487.106 billion received in the previous month by N151.567 billion.
“If you use force on him, then it becomes a robbery.
He said, immediately after his driver stopped to pick up the broken mirror, the hawker fell on the floor claiming he had a broken leg to escape being asked to pay for the damage.
Since the fighting erupted over a week ago, nearly 500 people have been killed and almost 4,100 injured, the UN said.
A video clip of the incident has been circulating on various WhatsApp groups.
Cumulatively from week 1 to week 12, 2023, 144 deaths have been reported with a case fatality rate (CFR) of 17.5 per cent.
The programme, monitored by a NAN correspondent in Akure, quoted Mrs Odunlami-Omisanya as saying that one of the two arrested suspects masterminded the burning of Mr Olorunfemi’s car.
He said with the passing-out, the strength and combat efficiency of the Nigerian Army would be enhanced with 6,251 well-trained men.
Some of them have connections to high-profile cases involving the illegal removal of former Governor Rashidi Ladoja of Oyo State; former Chief Justice of Nigeria, Walter Onnoghen; IPOB leader Nnamdi Kanu; outgoing Governor of Kano State, Ganduje, renaming of UNILAG, police women’s right, Okada ban in Lagos, former PDP spokesperson, Olisa Metuh, other corruption cases, VAT, etc
Mr Kanu, who leads a separatist campaign for the secession of the mainly Igbo-speaking South-east states and parts of neighbouring states as the independent Biafra Republic, is being incarcerated at the headquarters of the State Security Service (SSS) in Abuja.
PREMIUM TIMES reported that although Mr Betara is a leading candidate for House speaker, he is from the same region and state as the vice president-elect, Kashim Shettima, a factor that may work against him.
It is our prayer that God will grant the deceased eternal rest even as we pray to God to comfort the bereaved families and grant them the fortitude to bear their loss,” said Mr Aniagwu.
He added that the terrorists were spread in at least five villages on the fringes of Rugu forest between Safana and Batsari as well as part of Zamfara.
So, for you to allow the CAC, an agency of government, to regulate such important entities will water down their powers to check excesses of government institutions.
The region is not far from the border with Mali, an area overrun by fighters linked to Al-Qaeda and ISIS, who have reportedly carried out various attacks in Burkina Faso.
Others are Gombe, Jigawa, Kebbi, Kwara, Plateau, Sokoto and Taraba State Houses of Assembly.
About thirty persons on the platforms deposited various sums of bitcoin to the defendant’s account,”
I met my landlord who happened to be an elderly lawyer who obviously did more real estate than legal practice.
It is sad that Mbadinuju is dead, but I must say that he was a good man and he did a lot for the socio-economic development of Anambra State,” Mr Okeke said.
She added that Nigeria expects to get at least 100,000 doses of the vaccine in donations soon before the market authorisation will start making other arrangements with the National Primary Health Care Development Agency.
May God give their families the strength to bear the unfortunate losses.”
“The President-elect is from the South-west and the Vice President-elect is from the Nort-east, as such, the Senate President should be zoned to the South-south and the Deputy Senate President to the North-west.
Mr Kanu, also on diverse dates between 2018 and 2021, allegedly broadcasted furtherance of an act of terrorism against Nigeria and its people received and heard in Nigeria in furtherance of an act of terrorism, inciting members of the public in Nigeria to hunt and kill families of Nigeria security personnel.
Two aspirants for Senate President, Speaker reportedly offering $1million per vote – APC governors
PONLE acknowledges that the wire was processed through the Federal Reserve System and sent from an account held in New York, New York to an account ending in held in Nashville, Tennessee,” the plea agreement added.
• Alli Sharafadeen Abiodun – Oyo South
Patience Omoike-Mark, counsel to former Minister of Aviation, Femi Fani-Kayode, on Thursday stated that a Federal High Court (FHC) sitting in Lagos did not order the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to file fresh charges against him and others.
Voter apathy mars Ebonyi supplementary elections
But the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) through a statement by its spokesperson, Festus Okoye, declared as “null, void and of no effect” the declaration of Mrs Dahiru as the winner of the Adamawa state governorship election.
“At Easter, we are reminded of reconciliation, peace, unity, and the triumphant power of faith and hope in surmounting earthly challenges,” Mr Jonathan said.
“1st petitioner purportedly resigned his membership of PDP on May 24, 2022 to purportedly join the 2nd petitioner (Labour Party) on May 27, 2022.
Kaduna Train Attack: Court rejects Tukur Mamu’s bail application
The judge, Maureen Esowe, held that the act of the state government in suspending the national unions operations in the state and setting up a caretaker committee is illegal and against the provisions of Sections 4 (1), (2)& (3), and 5 (1) &(3), read along with item 34 of the exclusive legislative list, of the 1999 Constitution, as amended.
“For Onitsha, we have successfully concessioned and handed over to Universal Elison, a company that is partnering with Port of Tuna for the next 30 years.
This has caused a lot of friction,” Mr Ekere said.
“Now that I have been crowned as the monarch, by the Okpala Awkuzu, Awkuzu has gotten a traditional ruler ordained by God to pilot the affairs of the people,” he said.
He said they got wind of the ex-parte motion through social media, hence, they decided to file a motion.
Since the leak of the zoning arrangement, several groups have been speaking on the arrangement with some groups kicking against it.
The allegation was made through one Victor Yahaya, the leader of the Youth Christian Association of Nigeria Zango Kataf Local Government Area.
“The suspected kidnappers sighted our men around the area and engaged them in a gun duel so as to escape arrest.
“Presentation of colours is a rallying point for troops and match location of the commanders in a better view.
“The state can evict squatters anytime, and whenever the need arises.
A Civil Society Organisation, Social Integrity Network (SINET), has called on Economic and Financial Crime Commission (EFCC) and Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Offences Commission (ICPC) to stop the process of handing over the Ajaokuta Steel company to private investors.
The Bishop of Sokoto Diocese of the Catholic Church, Matthew Kukah, on Sunday in his Easter message asked Nigeria’s president-elect, Bola Tinubu, to make keeping Nigerians alive his first priority on assuming office.
I received the surrender of the Biafran Army at the end of the Nigerian civil war.
“What is going to happen that day, it is going to happen based on the instructions of the constitution and not for anyone.”
“Our party restate its charge to Gov.
Eligible voters are the total number of voters who have collected their PVCs.
But I did it with tact
Mr Onoh warned owners of the properties to vacate the estate and remove their personal belongings before 4 May or face the consequences, saying that the directive was in response to a judgement of a State High Court in Enugu delivered on 9 February.
The report presented by the Minister of State, Budget and National Planning, Clem Agba, showed that with the release of N50 billion, programmes that had achieved 100 per cent completion include, the Agriculture for Food and Jobs Plan (AFJP), and Construction of Rural Roads, among others.
According to him, in spite of increased danger about the need to protect the fragile and unique planet people lived in, it appeared humans are only making matters worst.
Lagos PDP suspends chairperson, deputy
Mr Banga’s selection was proposed by an executive director, and his appointment followed thorough due diligence and a comprehensive interview with the executive directors of the bank.
Out of the 6.6 million total votes in the North-west, Mr Tinubu got 2.65 million.
He added that sustaining current investments in these sectors would be a herculean task.
Godfrey Adejumoh, the spokesperson for Unilever Nigeria, directed PREMIUM TIMES to an old press statement when contacted for comment via email.
“They convinced themselves that the All Progressives Congress (APC) will lose the election.
The final group game between fierce rivals South Africa and Nigeria kicked off with a bang as Vicky Mkhawana netted the opening goal for the Amajimbos just six minutes into the match.
2023: There was conspiracy against Igbo’s bid for Nigeria’s presidency – Ikpeazu
It is unclear for now if the victims are members of the cult groups or innocent people.
It anticipated prospects of thunderstorms over parts of Taraba, Adamawa, Bauchi, Gombe and Kaduna States during the afternoon and evening hours.
Threats to our teams make it impossible to operate safely and effectively in the country and carry out WFP’s critical work,” she said.
“In the main, the originating summons sought the setting aside of the presidential election held on 25th February, 2023.
The transition committee accused the outgoing Ortom administration of reneging on his promise.
A person has been confirmed shot as shootings and burning were reported in the ancient city of Ikare Akoko, Akoko North East Local Government Area of Ondo State.
That is what has led to the crisis in the party today,” Mr Ekere said in the clip.
The Abia State University in Uturu Abia State has appointed a Senior Advocate of Nigeria and constitutional lawyer, Mike Ozekhome, as a visiting professor.
“Tinubu now faces a litany of crises in a fractured nation, including deep-rooted corruption, religious insurgencies, and shortages of cash, fuel, and power in a crumbling economy.
Defamation: Journalists to challenge conviction by Kwara magistrate, give reasons
“We value a variety of assets, including private companies, real estate, art and more.
She cited an instance where President Muhammadu Buhari approved the reversal of the monopoly of the Integrated Logistics Services, known as “Intels,” is one of the major players in the Nigerian maritime sector, because restrictions on oil and gas cargo to certain terminals were contrary to the agreements of the concessionaries, a move the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi opposed and did not convey this message to NPA.
But Mr Akinosi said contrary to the claims in the video, it was the hawker who brushed his car.
Meanwhile, Muktar Betara (APC, Borno), the Chairman of the House Committee on Appropriation, in a statement, said he was with Mr Maihanchi before traveling to Saudi Arabia.
The NSR further provides the FGN and other stakeholders a tested framework to channel some of the savings that will accrue from the subsidy removal to support vulnerable Nigerians.
For: Secretary to the Government of the Federation
“Emefiele must stay at his job to give full accounts of all that transpired under his watch to the incoming administration.
40 soldiers, civilian volunteers killed in Burkina Faso ambush
In the wake of COVID-19, ‘summit diplomacy’ has become a key tool for furthering geopolitical aspirations.
It was the first time Nigerian voters contended with a third-party candidate, and many discontented young Nigerians yearning for change pinned their hopes on Obi.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the theme of the lecture was: ‘Drug Abuse, Criminality and Insecurity in Nigeria: Toward a Collective Solution’.
If they want to take that risk, the options are there.
The tribunal also dismissed an attempt by the New Nigeria People's Party to change its counsel.
The party asked the tribunal to dismiss the petition with substantial cost on the grounds that it lacked merit and was frivolous.
I normally pass through there for periodic medicals.
Ogbulu, the University wrote interalia,as follows:
Also reacting to the development, the management of Dufil Prima Foods Plc, makers of Indomie Noodles in Nigeria, has said its products are 100 per cent locally produced and are safe for consumption.
“In line with that mandate, we have conducted the primary election through direct primary in all the 27 Local Government Areas,” he said.
But reacting, Ms Omoike-Mark refuted the media reports, saying that the court only directed that documents and exhibits filed in the course of the trial be returned to parties in the case.
About 1,007 people were recruited into the force as constabularies during the 2021/2022 recruitment exercise.
The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the president-elect, Bola Tinubu, have come under attack over the proposed zoning arrangement for the leadership of the National Assembly.
That is the law.”
Nigerian senator faults Tinubu, APC’s involvement in zoning NASS’ positions
I was even begging, which shows that I will continue to look for votes by begging.
They called on other aspirants to back the arrangement.
It further argued that the mode of bringing Mr Kanu back to the country “cannot vitiate the criminal charges of treason, treasonable felony and terrorism pending against him.”
Ms Moeti, in a statement to commemorate the 2023 World Health Day (WHD), said this is due to weak health systems characterised by inadequate health infrastructure; poorly designed policies to limit financial barriers to health services.
Ukraine will resume exporting electricity to Europe after a six-month pause due to crippling Russian missile attacks on the country’s infrastructure, Energy Minister German Galushchenko, said on Friday.
The newspaper mentioned several cases of such 'non-essential' commitments that the Buhari government has inadvertently tied its successor to.
He contended that Mr Tinubu or anyone else cannot be sworn in as president until he serves his term as Nigeria’s president.
Mr Biu, who applauded them, said the team did not only show professionalism in doing their job but also ensured that the integrity of the corps was protected and promoted at the highest level.
Nine years after, 98 Chibok girls still in Boko Haram captivity
Mr Lamola said countries such as Britain and the Netherlands had domesticated the Rome Statute to enable the executive to exit or suspend the statute’s operations if it was not in the national interest to implement them.
Before his elevation to the Court of Appeal, Mr Mohammed served on the bench of the FCT High Court, Abuja, from 2010, making about 10 to 11 years.
“For now, he has released four.
Mr Ojo also highlighted the high cost of nomination and expression of interest forms as a major impediment that blocked PWDs from the electoral process.
An Import Adjustment Tax (IAT) levy has been introduced on motor vehicles of 2000 cc to 3999 cc at 2 per cent while 4000 cc and above will be taxed at 4 per cent.
“Also recovered were 732 rounds of 7.62mm NATO, 77 rounds of 7.62mm special, 19 rounds of 7.62mm by 29mm special and 16 rounds of 7.62mm ball metal links ammo.
According to him, 62 per cent of the total disbursement (representing N198 billion) constituted the institutions’ annual direct disbursement, while 20 per cent of the disbursement (representing N64.2 billion) is for special disbursement.
It is an inclusive vision for all people in these countries, but also, with the support of the ECOWAS Commission, for all in the region.
Their action is commendable just as they are urged to ensure they pursue this to a logical conclusion.
“The death and resurrection of Jesus Christ is the substance of the Christian faith, as it offers believers hope and reminds us of God’s unfailing love, mercy, and grace toward humanity.
Ruling on Ms Brooks’ petition to review the BIA’s decision, the Court of Appeals noted that a final order of removal can only be reviewed if “the alien has exhausted all administrative remedies available to the alien as of right.”
He also met with elder statesman, philanthropist and patriarch of the Dantata family, Aminu Dantata, in Makkah where he once again expressed his condolences over the demise of his wife, Rabi Dantata.
Pretoria was reprimanded by the ICC and its own courts after ignoring an ICC request to arrest and surrender Mr al-Bashir when he visited the country for an African Union (AU) summit.
Mr Tinubu, who is due to be inaugurated as president on 29 May, said this Wednesday in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital.
The Provost of the National Defence College, Centre for Strategic Research and Studies, Adam Ahmed, has backed the call for drug tests for all public office holders in the country.
The first half then ended in a stalemate.
However, Mr Yunusa-Ari announced the final result an hour before the scheduled time.
After four days of arriving at the Sudan-Egypt border, Nigerian evacuees fleeing the crisis in Sudan have now been granted access to Egypt for onward transfer to Nigeria.
On the process of the preparation of the plan, the Minister of Finance stated that it was not only participatory and consultative but inclusive; involving all critical stakeholders such as all Federal Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs), 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory as well as the representatives of Local Government Areas (LGAs).
“Anybody we call to help us will start demanding money from us.
She noted that more skilled and motivated health workers, especially midwives, are needed, alongside essential medicines and supplies, safe water, and reliable electricity.
“When you reside in barracks, there are rules you must follow.
The Minister of Mines and Steel Development, Olamilekan Adegbite also addressed the correspondents on the outcome of the meeting.
He said that the UK would support countries within the region to provide their own solutions to the security challenges.
“You have lost experience, you have lost skills, enterprise and so on and so forth.
He said about 20 suspects were being prosecuted by the state government over the destruction of the banks in Oron.
“Wadi Halfa border is the one approved for our people, and this was communicated to our Mission in Khartoum.
Saudi Arabia and some other Muslim countries are also observing Eid-el-fitr Friday.
“I cannot preempt that; I will wait until we hold that meeting with the president-elect,” Mr Adamu said.
“All persons, pharmaceutical outlets and health facilities who may have any of these batches of Norvasc 5 mg tablets in stock should immediately dispose of them using the appropriate channels,’’ the commissioner stated.
The Court of Appeal in its decision of October 13, held that Mr Kanu’s forcible extradition from Kenya to Nigeria in June last year was in violation of both local and international laws.
Until his death he was the chairman of the board of Industrial Training Fund, (ITF)
How to drink pornstar martini?
However, the arrival of the first batch of evacuees has been delayed due to logistics and diplomatic issues at the Egyptian border, the head of the Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NiDCOM), Abike Dabiri-Erewa, said Thursday.
“This is an infraction to have people who are not cleared by the House receiving salaries and I am of the opinion that such money should be returned to the state’s coffers.”
LP and NNPP have 36 and 19 members-elect respectively.
Transcorp’s shares numbering 2.4 billion units exchanged hands in the open market in the period, implying most, if not all of Mr Elumelu’s new shares were acquired off the market.
He hailed Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, for supporting a power shift to the southern part of the country in the just concluded presidential election.
Mr Wariso said, with rates of AMR increasing worldwide, and very few new antibiotics being developed, existing antibiotics are becoming a limited resource.
"Emefiele must stay at his job to give full accounts of all that transpired under his watch to the incoming administration."
Others are: Repositioning the region’s health sector, evaluating the possibility of generating electricity with coal deposits in Enugu and creating the Ohanaeze investment company as well as a cultural centre.
The president spoke on Monday at the virtual unveiling of a book titled “Osinbajo Strides: Defining Moments of An Innovative Leader” written in honour of the vice president by a team of 25 journalists under the auspices of PYO COLLECTIVE.
“The idea of ethnicity again I think is a way of deflecting, let us focus on what really matters.
Additionally, the president-elect said among his immediate priorities is to deliver institutional reforms and development programmes to deepen our democratic institutions and bring help to poor and vulnerable Nigerians.
“As candidates check their results on Tuesday, 2nd May, 2023, those who sat the examination but had challenges without being aware of such, would not see their results but would instead see their notification for rescheduled examination,” he said.
The governments of Nigeria and Chad have condemned the ongoing fighting in Sudan.
Joy Nwanchor, a trader, said she could not have interest any more after the general elections.
Mr Dujarric said the continued heavy fighting is having devastating consequences for civilians, as well as UN staff and other members of the international community.
The Lagos State Governorship Election Petition Tribunal has granted an exparte application by Labour Party’s governorship candidate, Gbadegbo Rhodes-Vivour, for a substituted service on Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu.
Yusuf Gagdi, one of the aspirants for the speaker of the House of Representatives, said he has met with 24 out of the 36 governors in the country in his quest to occupy the position.
A fortnight ago, the court repealed the order barring the managing director from administrative duties, fixing 16 May for hearing.
His first establishment was Esmak Nigeria Limited which exists till today and it focuses on commodity distribution, transportation, real estate and hospitality.
“For the avoidance of doubt, the redesigned and old notes will continue to be accepted as legal tender.
ECOWAS Court to rule on controversial NBC Code, after Nigerian court judgement against agency
First thing I said, I am an open book.
Now I went to celebrate Sallah with the people in the mosque in Onitsha and they said it was me who rebuilt the mosque when it was destroyed under another governor.
The official said the APC candidate Mr Goro came third with 8, 669 votes.
The supplementary election was held on Saturday and collation was ongoing before Mr Ari declared Mrs Binani the winner.
President Muhammadu Buhari will on Thursday unveil 81 national and regimental colours for the newly established and operationalised units and retired unit colours of the Nigerian Army.
Mr Fubara, who was a candidate of the PDP, scored 302,614 votes, while Mr Cole came second with 95,274 votes, according to INEC.
She also disclosed that her successor is the First Lady of Burundi and the vice president, the First Lady of Niger Republic as she promised to remain supportive as the Chair of the honourary Advisory Council.
And I told him, we are taking him to our office for driving an unregistered vehicle and he pleaded that we should settle the matter there but we refused.
“Excuses have been given that they don’t have access and this is not acceptable.
Days later another attack was launched on the people and about 27 residents were killed.
Mrs Baba-Santali said the accused person, a school teacher, lured one of his pupils, a 5-year-old girl (name withheld) into an empty classroom and violated her.
Seven other aspirants, including a former Commissioner for Finance, David Adebanji-Jimoh, Ashiru Idris and Okala Yakubu, also stepped down following Mr Usman-Ododo’s endorsement by Governor Yahaya Bello.
In other words, according to Mr Mohammed, because INEC suspected a cyberattack, it took deliberate action to withhold the uploading of the results.
In a counter affidavit dated and filed Jan 20, 2021 by counsel to the CAC, Olasoji Olowolafe, the commission described the suit as “an abuse of judicial process.”
In the new book titled “Stepping on Toes: My Odyssey at the Nigerian Ports Authority”, Ms Bala Usman, accused her former boss, the then Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, of orchestrating her removal from office in February 2022 because she failed to lavish him with favours.
He holds a Bachelor’s degree in Library and Information Science from the University of Ibadan (second-class upper division), and a Master of Information Science Degree from the University of Ibadan in 2004.
I can only pray that God gives you grace.
Mrs Adeyeye, a professor, said Volt Candy is voluntarily recalling the one lot of PrimeZen Black 6000mg capsule alongside its 2000mg due to undeclared ingredients their manufacturer in America made of them.
The parents visited the RRS Awkuzu unit over three consecutive times, but authorities at the police unit claimed the two siblings were not in their custody.
In 2015, he featured Yetunde Omobadan in ‘African Beauty’; in 2018, he featured Temitope Kush in ‘Labodan’ and ‘Awon Temi’.
In his letter, Mr Oke said: “Chimamanda’s claims and assertions on the recently concluded Presidential elections in Nigeria is not only ludicrous, it is also illogical, baseless and depicts ignoble ranting of an uninformed mind about legal and judicial processes or procedures.”
“For us, we don’t have any problem with the resident doctors, but because it is a national body’s directive, they have to comply.
The home team showed their intent right from the start, piling on the pressure with early attempts on goal from Erling Haaland and Kevin De Bruyne.
Abdulaziz Yari says he remains in the race for election as president of the 10th Senate
The governor thanked members of the council for their service to the government and the people of Edo State.
They jointly suit the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Mr Tinubu and the APC as the 1st to the 3rd respondents, respectively.
Emmanuel Nwakanma from the University of Port Harcourt was elected Assistant Secretary and Eze Nwokocha, a professor at the University of Ibadan, was elected as the association’s Editor-in-Chief.
As the administration prepares to commence another tenure on 29 May, Mr Sanwo-Olu also called on all workers in Lagos State to join in resolve and determination to deliver greater and Impactful dividends of democracy to all.
He also claimed that the critically ill patient and her 10-day-old baby were isolated in a room alongside a 65-year-old grandmother and her mother-in-law who is in her 70s without adequate care.
“You are expected to always do your utmost best to sustain these values through high professional standards in order to enhance your individual ability and our overall combat-readiness.
He announced this during Monday’s celebration of the 2023 Workers’ Day, with the theme, Workers rights and socioeconomic justice, in Umuahia.
INEC has barred Mr Ari from its offices and wrote the Inspector General of Police to investigate and prosecute him.
He added that N1billion was equally approved for the contract for the procurement of 19 vehicles for the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA).
In her reaction on Monday, Mrs Ezekwesili wrote: “Hmmm.
Ms Adichie also alleged in her piece that: “Many believe that the INEC Chair has been “compromised” but there is no evidence of the astronomical US-dollar amounts he is rumoured to have received from the President-elect.”
Mr Ajibola, however, said he could not affirm whether the Senate will approve the loan request before the end of Buhari’s administration.
Mr Nnamani, a serving senator, representing Enugu East, believes that Mr Tinubu would not deviate from his avowed commitment to the programmes of social protection, national transformation and restructuring.
“Following the remand application presented before the court, I am advising that the case file be duplicated and sent to the Directorate of public prosecutions within 72 hours.
The JAMB spokesman said the examination body had delayed the release of the results to ensure that all necessary screening is concluded, “besides ensuring that the mean and standard deviation are reasonably obtained before releasing these results.”
She said during the International Women’s Day celebrations, they collaborated with other partners in Abuja to visit rural communities to educate women on the need to open accounts so that they can have alternatives.
If he chooses a Christian running mate, Christian is a minority religion in the North.
We had the Lomé [Togo] peace agreement; we had the Abuja Peace accord.”
PREMIUM TIMES spoke with over 15 civil servants in Zamfara who said they have not been paid for three months.
NiDCOM and NEMA at different times announced that about 1,600 Nigerian evacuees from Sudan were expected in Abuja on Friday.
Woodberry, who pleaded guilty at a US court, is well-known to be an ally of another Nigerian international fraudster, Ramon Abbas, alias Hushpuppi, who was jailed for 11 years by another US court last year.
The police in Anambra State, south-east Nigeria, have reportedly failed to produce a 23-year-old man arrested for alleged murder in the state.
That equals almost seven times the size of carbon emissions by Uganda and Tanzania put together.
The judge also made an order of perpetual injunction restraining the commission from further imposing fines on broadcast stations in the country.
The embassy said that it was collaborating with the Central Administration for International Students (Wafeden), under the Egyptian Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research to achieve this.
PREMIUM TIMES had reported that NNPC Limited refuted a publication by an online medium, Sahara Reporters, that the corporation diverted the money.
A five-member panel of the Supreme Court on 24 March, said it made a mistake in a judgement it delivered in 2021, where it erroneously wrote the name of Victor Oye as APGA national chairman instead of that of Edozie Njoku.
The report said the socioeconomic conditions in the destination country can play a significant role in determining the success of the migrants.
When you give Dino that ticket, you know he won’t win in Kogi State.
“I think that it’s really clear in this multipolar world, Africa is shaping up as a pole of that multipolar world and we need to recognise that and that shift of mentality, that shift of approach, is happening.”
“As we guide LinkedIn through this rapidly changing landscape, we are making changes to our Global Business Organization (GBO) and our China strategy that will result in a reduction of roles for 716 employees,” Mr Roslansky said.
In an earlier editorial, this newspaper had mentioned the inefficient use of the IReV as one of the flaws in the 2023 presidential election but stated that overall the election “demonstrated appreciable progress in the nation’s electoral process, in comparison to past ones.”
Mr Maren, who represents Mangu/Bokkos federal constituency in the North-central state, said this at a press conference at the National Assembly Complex in Abuja on Wednesday.
The House had in December 2022 resolved to probe the alleged missing 48 million barrels of crude oil that were purportedly sold in China by some Nigerian officials.
He advised some to ply Abeokuta through Sagamu Interchange as well for their own good.
They sat in the third row behind working members of the royal family.
He explained that malnutrition threatens the survival, growth, and development of millions of children.
His footsteps in the democratic processes and institutions stand tall as ever,” the letter stated.
The Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, NiDCOM chair, Abike Dabiri-Erewa, had earlier claimed that the sum of N150 million had been released for hiring of 40 buses for the sole purpose of evacuating these stranded students to Cairo in Egypt.
The secretary said the petitions were filed against the Independent National Electoral Commission’s (INEC) declaration of Governor Seyi Makinde as the winner of the 18 March governorship election.
The Federal Executive Council (FEC) has approved a contract for the supply and installation of ICT devices for the 2023 population census, which was approved for the National Population Commission for approximately N10.9 billion.
Three AK-47 rifles, two cell phones, two bulletproof vests, two walking talkies, a police uniform (camouflage), four AK-47 magazines and 120 live ammunition were among the items recovered from the hoodlums during the operation, according to the police.
The group claimed that Mr Emeh, an information technology consultant to the police in the state, was arrested in Benin Republic because he acted as a “whistle blower” who revealed details of the offences allegedly committed by the officers in the state.
I cannot over-emphasise the unique position of the 9th Assembly in the number of experienced lawmakers, their cooperative attitude and their purposeful outlook.
The casualty statistics covered the national capital Khartoum, the capital of North Kordofan State El-Obeid and the capital of West Darfur State Geneina, the union noted.
President Muhammadu Buhari Monday sent a message of condolence to the family of the late Idris Abdulkadir, professor of Veterinary Surgery and Medicine and former Executive Secretary, National Universities Commission, NUC, describing him as a scholar par excellence and a towering statesman.
He said the honour was in compensation for the roles Mr Tinubu played during his election in 2015.
To ensure that the remaining members of the gang are brought to justice, Mr Mba appealed to hospitals and pharmacies in the state, especially in the state capital, to inform the police if anybody with a gunshot injury seeks medical attention.
Traffickers bribe border and customs officials to secure passage for illegal wildlife products and provide false customs declarations.
He said some of the bandits leaders killed included Dogo Mai Kasuwa, Kachalla Gudau, Rigimamme and Alh Shanono among others.
“The coalition has the blessings of 14 APC governors, nine PDP governors as well as several National Working Committee (NWC) members of the ruling and opposition political parties,” they said.
• Sani Bello Abubakar – Niger North
So, the rerun election in Ikono/Ini Federal Constituency has been cancelled,” he said.
Abduction for ransom has been on the increase in several Nigerian cities.
The federal government filed nine additional grounds of appeal to the four it earlier filed in a hurry to block the release of the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, from custody.
The one for the South-South is in Bori, not far from here in Rivers.
He said that the command also took part in some independent, joint and combined exercises like; Operation Calm Waters, Operation Tripartite Border Patrol, Operation Tsare Teku, Operation Gba Pada, Operation Dakatar Da Barawo and Operation Obangame 2023.
Iwuanyanwu not yet Ohanaeze’s president-general – Official
He requested that the Senate observe a one-minute silence in memory of the victims of the attacks.
The Defence Headquarters says troops of the armed forces have in the last two weeks rescued 468 kidnapped victims and eliminated 54 terrorists in various operations across the North-east, North-central and North-west regions.
The question that followed was, who is to blame for the hate that hate produced?
The song ‘Overseas’ was released in 2012 by Davido featuring Sina Rambo on the track.
The Red Cross (ICRC) works in this Nigeria’s humanitarian context as well as other parts of the Lake Chad region – Cameroon, Chad, and Niger – ripped apart by terrorism.
The Speaker charged the officers and men of the state police command to perform their duties with a sense of responsibility and always respect the human rights of the people they are charged to protect.
“Those behind such acts are highly ignorant of the damage they cause to themselves and the Igbo nation."
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the presidential elections and National assembly took place on 25 February while the governorship and state Houses of Assembly Elections were held on 18 March.
He was unconscious for more than 15 minutes before two other male candidates assisted him to the accreditation hall around 9:05 a.m.
The previous Winter Olympics in 2014 had an average global audience of 2.06 billion.
“Tinubu spent only one day and travelled to London from there, but left the team he came with to continue engagement with Guinean officials on how to transform Guinea.
Mr Magaji on Saturday called on the APC leadership to select the senate president from Kano to sustain its support base for the party in the region in the face of other opposition parties wanting to take control.
“The first instance was that the president did not confer any advantage on his ruling party; and that is why as far as he was concerned, he would rather lose the election than win at all cost; and the result showed it.’’
According to the NCDC National Guidelines for Lassa Fever management, it is considered an alert case if a person has an unexplained fever (i.e.
It was difficult procuring these buses.
On the other hand, the Returning Officer for Gusau/Tsafe federal constituency, Aliyu Moyi said Kabiru Amadu of the PDP scored 60,587 votes, followed by Sanusi Rikiji of APC who polled 52,495 votes.
He explained that adequate personnel were also deployed to monitor the exercise in Tudun Wada/Doguwa, and Takai federal constituency, as well as some state assembly elections in Kano State.
The Rivers incident occurred a few days after a police officer allegedly shot dead a young man in the neighbouring Delta State for reportedly refusing to give N100 bribe.
The information about the meeting is contained in a statement made available by Betara’s Campaign Media Office in Abuja Wednesday, the News Agency of Nigeria reports.
Mr Yabagi expressed concern over the ethno-religious sentiments that characterised the selection of Presidential candidates for the 2023 general election.
SERAP asks Buhari to investigate “missing” 149 million barrels of crude oil
The brands are Omo, Sunlight and Lux, three household iconic brands which, at different points in history, have gained iconic status among consumers.
Mr Morka explained that zoning was a mechanism by which the party was able to make decisions, saying it afforded those interested in competing for political positions to do so with a minimum rift or rancour.
“In fact, the day they were going to Nsukka, I supported them with a sum of money because the family is not financially buoyant,” he recalled.
He said the patriarch died at the age of 78.
Photo Story: Speakership Race: Betara meets members-elect in Saudi Arabia
“Little is known about BIPOC professionals with careers as police officers, judges, defence lawyers, crown prosecutors and corrections officers in Canada,” he writes, adding that filling that gap is crucial in the age of Black Lives Matter, decolonization and movements against Asian hate.
He said two suspects were first picked up in Kagarko after which the soldiers drove in eight Hilux vans to the Janjala community and arrested the village head and 10 others.
At the commencement of proceedings at the Supreme Court on Thursday, Mr Kanu’s lead lawyer, Mike Ozekhome, informed the panel of some applications bordering on Mr Kanu’s bail and “deteriorating” health.
Disturbing Emerging Developments in Nigeria!
“I saw him [Massaquoi] in Foya in 2001, where we were staying,” said Defence 11, who told the Court on Friday that he was a former soldier for the RUF [identities of witnesses have been concealed to protect them from retributions].
Mr Gbillah also disclosed that the committee has intelligence that ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs) have not been complying with the Treasury Single Account (TSA).
Ekiti distributes 2,600 laptops to secondary schools
While the family of the patient insisted it was made to procure required medications at the IDH, the health commissioner, Mr Abayomi, has said at no time has the state “run out of critical medication or consumables and facilities required in the management of the disease.”
The Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed, disclosed this on Wednesday while briefing State House correspondents on outcome of the Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting in Abuja.
Two weeks ago PREMIUM TIMES reported an attack on residents of Zangon Kataf by terrorists.
The students’ body narrated that the government had in 2015 requested the FME to cede parts of the school’s land to it for use.
Workers’ Day: PDP urges Nigerian workers not to lose hope on petition against Tinubu
Mr Benjamin said this in spite of the hitches recorded at the commencement of the examination nationwide on Tuesday.
She said due to its indispensable role, the new Electoral (Amendment) Act, 2022, conferred additional jurisdiction on the FHC to hear and determine pre-election complaints.
He said the technical hitches experienced were a result of some innovations deployed by the examination body to “safeguard the sanctity of the examination by checkmating all incidences of examination misconduct being perpetrated and perpetuated by vested interests.”
But the NDDC management, in its response to Mrs Onochie, said the MOU was a preliminary process, and not a contract award.
“I have not had that discussion with the president-elect and I don’t like to speculate.
Pundits believe that the elections were not concluded in the first instance because of the characters involved and their statuses.
All Progressives Congress (APC)
Also at the event, the vice president was presented with the inaugural PEBEC ‘The Catalyst’ Award, given to the VP in recognition of being the most impactful, dedicated and consistent supporter of the implementation of the Ease of Doing Business reforms in Nigeria.
Preliminary investigation revealed that the suspect came into Nigeria from Oman on 7 April and was returning exactly a week after.
Mr Magaji said the appointments were approved by the Vice-Chancellor, Muhammad Umar, a professor, and announced by the Registrar, Abubakar Aliyu.
“Some simple incentives and an amnesty period, following which appropriate sanctions will be meted out, can be given to ensure quick compliance.
Also received was a petition from the PDP and its candidate for Saki West state constituency, Okedoyin Julius, challenging the outcome of the state house of assembly election, the secretary said.
He said, “These things like I said yesterday – development doesn’t know religion or tribe all these people are saying.
Mr Sanusi said the construction site has been cordoned off and taken over by its building control agency.
Tinubu makes TIME Magazine 100 World’s most influential people list
“We feel betrayed as if our contributions aren’t recognised as if we aren’t members of this party.”
Buhari, Obasanjo, Abiodun pay tributes to Bola Ajibola
“The latest in a series of some partisan editorials by some of this country’s newspapers seeking to rewrite recent history was published by the Punch newspaper paper this weekend, painting a bleak, pessimistic and frequently inaccurate picture of the state of our nation and outgoing President Muhammadu Buhari’s leadership,” Mr Shehu wrote.
The citation read at the event described Mr Nami as “a go-getter and an ingenious leader.”
He said the resident doctors are suffering from “entitlement syndrome”, insisting that the federal government has gone to great lengths “to give them everything they want.”
“Most worrisome is the fact that it is Kaduna State, where the APC performed woefully by losing the three Senate seats and 11 of the 16 House of Representatives seats that are being considered for the Speaker position,” he said.
We are part of Afenifere.
Anyone who believes in me, though he die, shall live (Jn.
“My prayer is that all the remaining students will by God’s grace, be released in time and in good health back to their parents,” she prayed.
The judge, Ms Nyako, in a short ruling for an adjournment, said she would not tolerate any act that might delay proceedings any longer.
“The good news is that Governor Uzodinma has remained undaunted in his determination to turn the fortunes of Imo State around and will continue to remain focused for as long as he will be in office as the governor.”
“He was questioned for a long time and it was very strange for a man who lived for over a decade in that country,” a statement issued by the Head, Obi-Datti Media, Diran Onifade, on the matter said.
The university vice-chancellor, Muhammad Umar, a professor, has also approved appointment of other individuals into various positions in the institution.
According to him, the Senators-elect of the South-east only met to make a demand from the President-elect and the party and yet to endorse anyone.
“My emergence as the senator to represent Abia North in this critical time in the history of our dear nation comes with huge responsibilities, the top of which is to make quality laws for the good governance of our people.
“I think a charitable way of reading Professor Soyinka’s comments is that Professor Soyinka himself said he is not giving to restraint in the language in general and that may be where the word fascist came from.
The minister made the claim by comparing the cost of electricity in Nigeria to other African countries.
The Senate has granted more time to an ad hoc committee it constituted to investigate alleged unauthorised spendings by the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC).
If the court doesn’t dissolve the union, I will run away with my kids."
“Our shared experiences bring us to the conclusion that no matter what the forces of evil can do, we, as Nigerians, united in doing good, can and shall prevail”.
He described the allegation by Mr Abure as an “irrational outburst” caused by a “morbid obsession with APC”.
The full statement of Mr Adejobi is reproduced below.
The project has suffered years of delay, which the Minister for Environment, Mohammed Abduallahi, last year blamed it on some civil society organisations as well as some individuals in the state of instituting “unnecessary litigations” to stall the implementation of the project.
This leaves the Court with the only option of admitting the witnesses’ statements to Finnish police into evidence, which will be done in Finland.
Asked whether P&ID might have “compromised” Dikko — who was representing Nigeria in the arbitration case — Cahill denied that Quinn had sought to corrupt the lawyer, and added: “In Nigeria, there is a culture whereby people give presents.”
Hitherto FAAN has not bought new trucks in 15 years,” the minister tweeted.
The president, however, refused to inaugurate the nominees even after they were cleared by the Senate.
The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) disclosed this in its latest situation report published Thursday on its website for week 12 of 2023.
The Cabotage Vessel Finance Fund was established by the Coastal and Inland Shipping (Cabotage) Act, 2003 to promote the development of indigenous ship acquisition capacity by providing financial assistance to Nigerian operators in domestic coastal shipping.
Mr Ale told PREMIUM TIMES that when they got to IDH, there were “no dialysis facility, oxygen, and other medications”.
Mrs Akande-Sadipe’s candidacy has already generated buzz among her supporters, who see her as a trailblazer for women in politics and a voice for accountability and professionalism in government.
Mr Ahmad argued that there are enough precedents on overriding the president on bills.
France will host the International Fund’s headquarters in Paris and provide up to €15 million in support to the Fund for between 2022 and 2024.
The sixth officer is captured in the video, smacking the two people multiple times with the machete.
The Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria (SPDC) on Wednesday denied claims that it was in violation of Nigerian Content laws at the EA fields in Bayelsa State.
Hushpuppi gets over 11-year jail term, to pay $1.8 million restitution
“I assure you that the love, confidence and trust you invested in me and my foundation will continuously impact the lives of many Nigerians,” she said.
“I think the security agencies should do their work.
According to him, the environment is safe for investment to thrive, adding that the state is open for businesses and that the government would be ready to provide all within its capacity for their businesses to strive.
“We have raised a standard in Ebonyi that makes us compete with the best in the world.
Mr Dewu explained that the arrests were made between the period he assumed office as Flag Officer of the Command, from 4 February, 2022 to the period he exited from the command on 11 April.
NAN reports that World Press Freedom Day which started in 1993, and is celebrated on May 3 annually is to remind governments of the need to respect their commitment to press freedom.
“Accordingly, the hearing has been listed for Thursday 22nd June 2023,” he stated.
”President Muhammadu Buhari lived up to his billing by delivering a free, fair and credible election, and his legacy is assured.
“The removal of illegal structures is also scheduled to be carried out at all other airports that have similar challenges,” it said.
The all-share index grew by 83 basis points to 52,290.8, while market capitalisation climbed to N28.5 trillion.
“Personally, it is a huge motivation for me, and I hope that from here I will lift my name high too.”
Yet she was made to head NIPC, only to be sacked by two different, consecutive administrations.
Victims’ parents are concerned that the girls who refused to be “married” by Boko Haram are suffering brutal treatment every day.
We must all remain constant in our efforts to promote unity — across all lines — because united, our nation remains stronger, and we can thrive as a people.
It is not about grammar, rhetoric or qualifications, it is about core competence and experiences that we need to respond to the right issues of national importance.
The hearing was ongoing as of the time of filing the report.
Lagos State government says the developer ignored a ‘Stop Work’ order
LASTMA hands over suspected ritualist to police after road accident in Lagos
Salihu Lukman, national vice chairman (North-west) has accused Messrs Adamu and Omisore of lack of transparency in the management of the APC’s finances.
“Building through 40,000 vehicular traffic daily is not an easy undertaking, we cannot shut down the road.
Don advises EFCC on use of forensic accounting
Mr Tsammani also led the Court of Appeal’s panel that gave the October 2022 judgement suspending the release of the leader of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra, Nnamdi Kanu, from custody after the charges against the secessionist were dismissed in an earlier judgement of the court.
He calls on each member state to redouble its commitment to implement an ambitious and innovative acceleration plan to rapidly reduce the burden of malaria and save the lives of its populations.
He urged participants to desist from selling farm inputs given to them by government.
“We call on the governor to step down from being on the ticket of the APC for a second term in order to save Imo from continuous killings,” HURIWA said.
Strike: Demands by resident doctors absurd — Ngige
Ronak Gopaldas, Institute for Security Studies (ISS) Consultant, Director, Signal Risk and Faculty at the Gordon Institute of Business Science
Some have made headlines, while others have only little reported about them in the media.
President Buhari said he remains grateful to Nigerians, who voted him in 2015 and 2019, without any monetary incentive, with some trooping to the campaigns, and receptions in states just to catch a glimpse.
In March, a documentary film caused an uproar in Poland, as the movie accuses Wojtyla of knowing about allegations of priest abuse in the 1960s and 1970s when he was archbishop of Krakow.
I get it now.
“For the avoidance of doubt, the Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide led by Chief Dr Engr.
The 11,800m Third Mainland Bridge was opened in 1990 during the military administration of President Ibrahim Babangida.
All of these companies play significant roles on their own and in various partnerships.”
The Defence Headquarters says troops of the armed forces have eliminated 53 terrorists and other criminals in various operations in North-east, North-central and North-west in the last two weeks.
The naval personnel, Mr Adamu admitted to reporters that he was arrested for stealing a Mercedes Benz C300 in Delta State.
Mr Chukwulobelu urged the media to intensify reportage on the burden and symptoms of the disease as well as how and where patients could get medical help.
A Federal High Court in Awka, has dismissed a suit by the Anambra State Government challenging the power of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to investigate its finances.
Lagos State government has set up a 22-member committee to coordinate the activities for the inauguration of Governor Sanwo-Olu on 29 May.
A Wurkunawa representative, Wilfred Habuba – Yambakam, told the BBC that after the installation of the new monarch, people from the Karimjo tribes started burning down buildings and shops belonging to the Wurkam people.
The cartels, which include Cameroonians and Nigerians, export the pangolins to Asia through major transit nodes such as Douala (Cameroon) and Lagos ports (Nigeria).
Arrested traffickers over the years include Congolese, Malian, Lebanese and Chinese nationals.
President Muhammadu Buhari will travel to Saudi Arabia on official visit from Tuesday, 11 April to 19 April, his office has said.
Ms Etteh was elected speaker in 2007 but subsequently resigned about five months later over a “corruption allegation”.
The electoral law provides that announcements of results should be made by the returning officer, who is a different person, usually appointed from higher institutions.
Tinubu congratulates King Charles, calls for strong relationship between UK, Nigeria
That responsibility solely lies with the state collation officer appointed by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC).
Speaking at the briefing, the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) representative, Eduardo Celades, highlighted the gaps in access to quality healthcare in Nigeria.
An example: every two years, there are 54 votes up for grabs and Africa’s weight suddenly becomes relevant.”
In the video that went viral on social media on Tuesday, the FRSC officer is seen hitting the shocked victim who is heard crying and repeatedly saying, “you slapped me.”
“There are many of them and heavily armed.
Ms Joseph said many women are interested in making their snacks at home but don’t know how to do it.
“In my humble view, the Attorney General should be interested in the legality or validity of any law in Nigeria and how such laws affect or will affect Nigerians, being the Chief Law Officer of the Federation.”
Gunmen abduct, kill police officer in Imo
The Labour Party has rejected the statement by President Muhammadu Buhari that opposition parties lost the 2023 general elections because there were complacent and overconfident.
The commission, in its investigation examined evidence from company data and forensic scientists as well as blood samples from people living in the affected areas.
Instead of addressing the issues, they are drifting and talking about punitive measures, that is not good for Nigeria, and it is not good for the health sector, and it is not going to resolve the issues we have raised,” he said.
PREMIUM TIMES reported that the first batch of 376 evacuees arrived late on Wednesday night in aircraft belonging to Air Peace and the Nigeria Air Force.
Justice Oguntoyinbo of the Federal High Court, Lagos had in November 2019 ordered the Federal Government to “recover life pensions collected by former governors..."
According to him, this is necessary in order to actualize the country’s Security Sector Reform.
This upward trend shows that the prices of essential ingredients for Jollof rice have increased.
Liberia: EX-RUF commander denies Gibril Massaquoi fought in Liberia’s war
“You have repositioned the operations and staff of the FIRS, and introduced technological tools to institute more transparency, accountability, and effectiveness, which in turn has translated into the increased capacity to deliver on the mandate with results.”
The EFCC says it has appealed against the court’s judgement lifting the forfeiture order on the properties linked to the Kogi State governor, Yahaya Bello.
He also urged them to carry out their duties bearing in mind the multinational, as well as cultural and religious diversities of the operating environment which underscore the need for courtesy and respect for their hosts as well as others.
He said people had seen how INEC conducted the 25 February and 18 March elections against the run of play and later challenging cheated candidates to go to court.
Emmanuel Michael (Simon Ben Football Academy)
In the zoning arrangement by the NWC of the ruling party, which is believed to have the imprimatur of the President-elect, Bola Tinubu, the South-south is to produce the senate president while the North-west will produce the deputy senate president.
Sen. Orji Uzor Kalu visits the president-elect Bola Ahmed Tinubu.
Mr Benjamin also assured that no candidate would be denied the right of taking their examination due to any hitches experienced.
(ABUJA, May 3, 2023)
The President-Elect is no longer for the APC.
On examination malpractice, Mr Areghan reiterated that the penalties will be meted out to erring candidates, invigilators, supervisors, schools, and WAEC officials, as it would be approved by the Nigeria Examinations Committee (NEC).
Mrs Adichie had alleged in a letter to President Joe Biden of the US that INEC Chair, Mahmood Yakubu, may have been compromised by Mr Tinubu, who won the recent Nigeria's presidential election.
They also demanded to know how the funds were used.
President Muhammadu Buhari, Thursday asserted that while the All Progressives Congress (APC) was working hard to retain power in the recent elections, the combined opposition was a victim of overconfidence – the main reason he believed they lost.
“Pursuant to section 58, sub section 2 of the 1999 Constitution, I forward herewith the Nigerian Police Force College Training School and Institution Establishment Bill 2023 for consideration and passage of the Senate,’’ the letter read.
The group comprises CSOs that are focused on the health sector include the Association of Psychiatrists in Nigeria (APN), Association of Psychiatric Nurses in Nigeria (APNON), Nigerian Association of Clinical Psychologists (NACP), Mentally Aware Initiative, Mental Health with Ditty, among others.
My job is not to be doing such sensitisation.
The team, headed by the Minister of Labour and Employment (State) Festus Keyamo, held a press briefing at the National Press Center in Washington D.C on Wednesday.
In his closing remarks, the founder of TheCable, Simon Kolawole, urged media houses to prioritise digital inclusion.
But the judge on 8 April while ruling on the Mr Kanu’s preliminary objection challenging the validity of the charge, struck out eight of the 15 counts.
The panel of Justices led by Justice John Okoro while delivering the judgement prepared by Justice Emmanuel, dismissed the appeal filed by Mr Oyetola, for lacking in merit.
This will go a long way in ensuring a peaceful and smooth take-off of the incoming administration,” Mr Lado said.
The president said Nigeria, as a viable member state of the ILO and a connoisseur of workers’ rights, had ratified all the core conventions of the organisation, guarding and promoting rights at work.
The firefighters rescued people who were trapped in their homes by the water and drivers stranded in the floods.
Buhari approves postponement of 2023 Census
Mrs Muhammed-Oyebode, who is a development specialist, said the book was issued to mark the ninth year of the abduction of the school girls in Borno State in 2014.
When the audio surfaced online some weeks ago, Mr Obi, in a statement he personally signed, said the audio was fake.
Watching a sporting event on TV is the ideal alternative if you can’t make it to the event.
“The evacuees are advised to be at the designated locations with only one luggage,” they said.
The Ramadan and other months are either twenty-nine or thirty days, depending on when the new crescent is sighted.
Edo govt warns against use of Norvasc 5mg tablets
The secessionist group, in August 2021, introduced a sit-at-home order every Monday across the South-east to pressure the Nigerian government to release its detained leader, Nnamdi Kanu, who is standing trial for alleged terrorism at the Federal High Court, Abuja.
However, the election environment was peaceful and orderly with the presence of the Police and personnel of the Police and Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) at the polling stations.
“I went to Nwaniba to buy some medication at a pharmacy, so I ran into (the) cult clash,” she said.
The president also said the military made and continues to make remarkable progress in the fight against insurgents, militants, oil bunkers, kidnappers, and other criminal elements in the country.
Mr Mamu was arrested based on his suspicious relationship with the terrorists involved in the March 2022 train attack along the Abuja-Kaduna railway.
“The plans by INEC to conduct supplementary election in IKono/Ini Federal Constituency of Akwa Ibom in 34 polling units instead of 17 is preposterous.
According to him, the PSC chairman appreciated the I-GP and retired I-GPs for honouring his invitation while assuring that the commission under him will not relent in making sure that the welfare of officers and men is well catered for.
“Like I already said, we are giving her (Mrs Ahmed) the benefits of the doubt.
Mr Olawuyi stated this in Abuja on Tuesday during his official declaration to join the race to head the 10th House.
Concerned All Progressives Congress (APC) Members Forum, which described itself as a group of party members, has backed the call for the emergence of Godswill Akpabio as the President of the 10th Senate.
Based on this, the minister emphasised that the Buhari administration will give Nigeria the airline it deserves for the market, for the population, for the centrality and for everything.
We shall celebrate his release soon by the mercy of God Almighty, Amen.”
The command spokesperson said a suspect had been arrested and currently assisting the police to ascertain the immediate and remote causes of the fracas.
According to him, the sensitivity of public buildings necessitates the need for builders and owners to imbibe insurance policies.
“Ours is a labour of love to my country.
The PDP governorship primary election will hold on Sunday 16 April in Lokoja, the Kogi State capital.
So sad I won’t be there to play my LAST RESPECT.
For the purposes of the appeal, Joshua Carey, counsel to the HMRC, submitted that the revenue outfit accepted that if the court found that the cigarettes did not belong to Mr Fagbewesa, the penalty would fall away.
The event will be held on Friday, 19 May, at the State House Conference Center, Abuja.
They submitted their protest letter to the National Chairman of the APC, Abdullahi Adamu, at the national secretariat of the party in Abuja.
You have made significant contribution to the institute and to Nigeria.
It does not stop me whatsoever from vying for the position that I know I eminently qualify to vie for,” he said.
Lagos taskforce demolish shanties along Lekki coastal road
Nigeria’s Aviation Minister, Hadi Sirika, on Monday said the Federal Executive Council (FEC) has approved the sum of N3.04 billion for the procurement and installation of taxi lighting systems and photometric patterns at three major airports in the country.
Mr Ngige added that the government would continue to work with the two labour centres to create an environment that would support the aspirations of Nigerian workers.
Transcorp counts New York-based provider of exchange-traded funds Global X Management Co. LLC among its top institutional investors.
Economy has witnessed growth.
Nigeria has gone to court to contest the 2017 arbitration ruling –– which, with interest, has now almost doubled to $11 billion –– arguing that it shouldn’t have to pay since Process & Industrial Developments Limited (P&ID), registered in the British Virgin Islands, obtained the contract through bribing government officials.
The president noted that with the completion of the Enumeration Area Demarcation of the country, conduct of first and second pretests, the recruitment and training of adhoc workers, procurement of Personal Digital Assistants (PDAs) and ICT infrastructure, appreciable progress has been made in the implementation of the 2023 Population and Housing Census.
“If you take a closer look at yourselves in comparison to your kinsmen and women here, you will agree with me that there is no difference between us.
Rights activists accuse the police of carrying out extra-judicial killings, which the state’s government denies.
The commissioner said election tribunals have been set up in all 36 States and FCT and the police are committed to efforts towards mitigating electoral malfeasance with more arrests, prosecution and sanctioning of the ‘mother spiders’ to end their reign of impunity.
A visit to the Federal Medical Centre (FMC) Jabi showed that skeletal health activities were going on.
He, however, said the board would ensure that all candidates willing to register for the DE are allowed to register.
Speaking on zoning, Mr Gagdi said Mr Tinubu and the APC must be fair to the North-central by zoning the speakership position to the region.
The National Population Commission (NPC) says the 2023 Population and Housing Census was postponed due to the government’s transition programme and the post-election mood in the country.
The illegality is real and so that is why we are going round other properties in Banana Island.
The first specifies a timeframe for the enactment of appropriation bills.
Mrs Ifesinachi, the suspect, is an indigene of Alor in Idemili South Council Area of Anambra State, but married to a man from Enugu, another state in south-east Nigeria.
“Pockets of sovereign debt distress could, in the context of higher borrowing costs and lower growth, spread and become more systemic.
Earlier, the school management had announced that late payment of school fees would attract N10,000 penalty fee.
Adamawa Supplementary Poll: Judge raises doubts about Binani’s suit
With the Sudanese air closed due to the crisis, the trapped students have only the road to travel out of the war zone and board a flight to Nigeria.
While wishing the workers a successful Workers’ Day celebration, Okowa thanked the leadership of NLC and TUC and appealed that they extend the same support to Oborevwori, the incoming governor of the state.
Mr Saidu said the South-east had a similar problem with President Muhammadu Buhari in 2019 when it demanded the position of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF).
He said “It looks as if their initial case against him is dead” and they were looking for another way to delay justice.
“These individuals have been involved in intimidation of voters through threats and physical violence, the manipulation of vote results, and other activity that undermines Nigeria’s democratic process,” Mr Blinken said.
Tinubu burdened by drug, identity scandals, Atiku tells court
“His wise counsel on key policy matters in education, science and technology will never be forgotten,” assured the president.
Ohanaeze also said it had made several unsuccessful efforts to prevent Mr Isiguzoro and others who allegedly emerged from a parallel Ohanaeze Ndigbo election in January 2021 from presenting themselves as Ohanaeze leaders.
Mr Saidu, also the leader of the Arewa Community in Southern Nigeria, said this when he spoke with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Tuesday in Abuja.
However, efforts by PREMIUM TIMES to reach Mr Abakpa proved abortive as his telephone number could not be located as of the time of filing this report.
It added that the electricity supply in Q4 2022 stood at 5,611 (Gwh) from 5,024 (Gwh) in Q3 2022, showing a rise of 11.68 per cent.
Thanks to all our customers for the patience & understanding.
He got this even though the company was owing the federal government, had violated the Treasury Single Account policy, and above all longer had any contract with the NPA.”
• Aminu Tambuwal Sokoto South
Mr Ari was also barred from the INEC office.
“Let me also reiterate that the Federal Government will stop feeding inmates incarcerated for breaching state laws.
But the students’ union on the campus has kicked against the management’s decision, insisting it is against all known laws.
“This is in recognition of your outstanding contributions to national human rights advocacies, constitutional law and enviable professional standing in the Legal profession.
A five-member panel of justices most likely to be presided over by Monica Dongban-Mensem, the President of the Court of Appeal, will conduct the pre-hearing session of the petition court on Monday.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the NBC had, on March 1, 2019, imposed the sum of N500, 000 each on 45 broadcast stations in the country over alleged violation of its code.
Mr Adejobi said in a statement that the Election Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Team of the police has arrested Mr Ari.
Mr Buhari had in March approved the appointment of the permanent secretaries.
He said the other area of support for the special intervention was students’ hostels.
In a video clip, popular preacher, Muhyideen Bello, was seen urging the authorities to expedite the processes for the enthronement of the new monarch.
He, therefore, urged the court to declare that Mr Buhari lacked the power to remove him from office for “any reason(s) whatsoever outside the conditions specifically listed in the said Section 63(3) of the Petroleum Industry Act, 2021.”
In Q3 2022, the NBS explained that metered customers stood at 5.02 million from 4.96 million in Q2 2022, indicating a 1.33 per cent increase.
The development is contained in the UK’s revised code of practice for recruiting internationally for health and social care organisations.
One of the aspirants from North-central, told PREMIUM TIMES on the condition of anonymity that he will not step down for anyone.
But did not see their children in those stations.
Court adjourns hearing in 11-year-old trial of ex-Lagos speaker
But both men and their political parties are challenging the outcome of the polls in court.
Dele Alake, the special adviser communications to President-elect, Bola Tinubu, says Chimamanda Adichie may face a lawsuit over an allegation she made against the Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Mahmood Yakubu.
The ECOWAS case is contesting the power of the NBC to impose fines on erring broadcast stations, an issue a Nigerian court ruled on Wednesday.
We will make faster progress towards the achievement of the peaceful, united, strong, progressive and prosperous country we all desire if we eschew divisive, parochial, ethnic and religious sentiments and rivalries, and begin to live more harmoniously with our compatriots.
Police arraign 29 suspects over deadly cult clash in Uyo – Official
FRSC warns about fake recruitment via LinkedIn
“That magnanimity does not in any way amount to pressuring whoever wants to challenge the election to change his/her mind.
Mrs Akin-Olugbade led the development and implementation of transformative strategies, programmes and transactions, positioning the African Development Bank as the “Solutions Bank.”
He said the initiative aligns with Nigeria’s Discrimination against Persons with Disabilities (Prohibition) Act 2019, and that it shows the newspaper’s values.
He will be sworn in on 29 May although his two main opponents are challenging his election in court.
“These trends call attention to the challenges of providing social support and protection to growing numbers of older persons.
Mrs Ajose added that the whereabouts of some persons in the areas were unknown since the rain subsided.
Total Public debt stock, however, consists of the domestic and external debt stocks of the Federal Government, the 36 state governments and the Federal Capital Territory.
Three aspirants for the senate president’s seat, Abdulaziz Yari (APC-Zamfara), Sani Musa (APC-Niger) and Orji Kalu (APC-Abia) have been very vocal in speaking against the arrangement.
However, the agencies involved had expressed readiness to airlift the Nigerian evacuees immediately after they arrive in Sudan.
“In order to leverage on the enormous market opportunities created by the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) agreement, there should be a gradual reduction of import tariffs on intermediate products used by domestic firms that export or plan to do so.
Other senators, who raised concern over the consideration of the budgets were Seriake Dickson (PDP-Bayelsa) and Solomon Adeola (APC-Lagos).
Before ruling on the motion, Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila said the charges against Mr Ekweremadu are a departure from the character of the man he has known for 24 years.
The others were the Chairman of the EFCC, Abdulrasheed Bawa, the Chairman of the Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, Abike Dabiri-Erewa and a past Chief of Army Staff, Tukur Buratai.
What was accomplished in the last four years was because of the harmonious relationship between the executive and legislature.
The accused persons had each pleaded not guilty before Justice Mohammed Liman, and were allowed to continue on an earlier bail granted them in 2012 when they were first arraigned.
Mr Tinubu, who is currently outside Nigeria, said those who emerged as winners in the elections have earned the trust of their people.
The diplomat said he co-led National Democratic Institute (NDI) and International Republican Institute (IRI), International Election Observation Mission to Nigeria during the elections.
Mr Ikuforiji was also accused of using his position to misappropriate funds belonging to the Assembly.
Boma, unaware of Xavier and Donna’s past relationships, falls helplessly in love with Xavier but realises it is not reciprocal because Xavier is still obsessed with Donna.
Mr Adah trained as a teacher at Ilorin Teachers’ College, Ilorin between 1975 and 1976 before gaining admission to study law at ABU in 1978.
For Christians everywhere, this celebration is in commemoration of Jesus Christ’s life of service and his supreme sacrifice for the salvation of mankind.
“Our members are speculating without facts.
He further said the judges who delivered the judgments in Rivers and Ekiti States might have arrived at their conclusions based on facts different from the facts presented before him in the latest suit.
Sudan: Aisha Buhari calls for solidarity to prevent escalation
Nigerian students who have been evacuated from Sudan will no longer arrive in Nigeria Friday as earlier announced by the government, PREMIUM TIMES can authoritatively report.
Speaking on his experience, Mr Malami said he “encountered many thorny terrains but the Almighty helped me to also triumph.
If the bill is graciously signed by the president, posterity will forever remember him as the president that has signed bills such as the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB), 22 Electoral Amendment Bill, and Hopefully the 2023 HND, First Degree Dichotomy abolition bill that has touched the lives of Nigerians and Nigeria Economy,” he said.
This, according to him, will enable the board fast track the process of obtaining their travel documents in good time before the commencement of the airlift to Saudi Arabia.
But PREMIUM TIMES learnt that the ministry declined citing security concerns.
Mr Kanu, its leader, was first arrested in 2015, but was granted bail in April 2017.
Mr Ndukwe, a deputy superintendent of police, said the suspect has been arrested and arraigned in court.
The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Alfred Alabo, disclosed this in a statement on Friday in Jos.
She is the most memorable act in the film because she plays most of the comedic parts.
The commissioner also disclosed that Governor Ifeanyi Okowa has approved the constitution of the inauguration committee to oversee a smooth transition to the next administration in the state.
‘‘As a non-profit organization dedicated to improving the quality of life of Africans, the Foundation focuses on engendering self-reliance and fulfilment by working tirelessly on policy and advocacy for issues that impact ethics, equity, good governance and economic empowerment, encouraging education, development, and providing disaster relief,” Mrs Muhammed-Oyebode said
“Our eyes must stay on the ball, but in doing so, we must make sure justice will be done; we will do the best as human beings to deliver justice to all and sundry,” Mr Adamu said.
Discussions were frank, and creative.
Mr Ikenga gave the names of the arrested suspects as Hyacinth Ujwuika 45, Samuel Akpan, 31, and Chinonso Offor, 24, otherwise known as Wolf.
Governor Bello Matawalle of Zamfara State is the only governor that lost his reelection bid.
He reiterated his earlier admonitions that, as leaders, they were elected to serve the people and humanity with fairness and justice.
Without providing any source, Mr Keyamo claimed that 28 people died during the 2023 elections compared to 150 who died in 2019.
He said the exclusion of his North-central region in the allocation of the presiding offices of the National Assembly by the ruling party is an act of injustice.
“The PDP in clear terms tells President Buhari and his APC that our party and candidate, Atiku Abubakar clearly won the February 25, 2023 presidential election as shown by the authentic results from the majority of Polling Units across the country,” he said.
So that brings to the table South-east, South-south but that automatically knocks out North-east guys and then North-east was very valuable in this last election to our party.
The Adamawa State Governor, Ahmadu Fintiri, on Tuesday in Yola expressed appreciation to voters for their support at Saturday’s supplementary governorship election which ended in his re-election.
The ECOSOC Youth Forum is a platform for young people to engage with policymakers, UN officials, and other stakeholders to discuss key issues related to sustainable development.
In his first speech, shortly after his coronation, the newly crowned monarch thanked the people for finding him worthy, adding that whoever that “wants good thing, good thing will follow him.”
“The 36 chairmen resolved that Mr Abure remains the national chairman of LP and Comrade Lamidi’s action is accordingly repudiated and cannot stand.
Mr Omotosho’s verdict followed a suit that was brought before the court by aggrieved members of the party led by Rilwan Okpanachi.
Nigerian evacuees from Sudan [Photo credit: Chiamaka Okafor/Premium Times]He noted that the situation in Khartoum is now “calming down, and the army will soon control the entire capital (Khartoum).”
He charged the newly promoted officer to always remember his training and to exhibit sensitivity while carrying out his duty in his new position.
Mr Okechukwu added that “it is a common practice in international relations for nations, including the UK, to seek relief for their citizens involved in situations such as that of the Ekweremadus.”
“For over eight years, the conditions of service have not been implemented as the aviation agencies are functioning without governing boards."
“The government should focus on making strategic bets, leverage technology for transparency.
FRSC advises Lagos-bound travellers to use the Ikorodu through Sagamu and Ijebu-Ode, and Epe for Lagos routes
Dorothy Killam Fellowships are valued at $80,000 CAD per year for a total of 2 years.
Adamawa, Kebbi Supplementary Elections: Atiku woos voters for PDP
She said the arrest of the suspects followed the outcome of the investigations by SCID.
He also said the commission, after meeting with state chief executives of pilgrims boards and agencies agreed that the portal for registration of those paying through the Hajj Savings Scheme will be closed today (Friday).
The Federal Ministry of Works on Wednesday shut down the Apapa-bound lane of the beginning of Marine Bridge in Lagos, damaged by vandals, for the safety of the public.
A gun fight ensued that led to the death of many people especially the bandits.
“All relevant government agencies, including the National Executive Council of the party were present where I was unanimously appointed,’’ he stressed.
President-elect, Bola Tinubu, says voters must shun any form of violence during and after the supplementary elections scheduled for Saturday.
Rebels from the Liberians United for reconciliation and Democracy (LURD), were battling Taylor’s forces in the county and prosecutors alleged that the RUF rebels were used to back up Taylor’s troops against the LURD rebels.
But responding to the objection, Mr Ekpenyong said he needed not to give prior notice to the lawmakers before challenging an infringement to his fundamental rights.
“We thank God Almighty for our electoral victory.
INEC National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye, gave the assurance in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Friday in Abuja
Red Star Express fell to N2.3, losing 8.73 per cent.
Rivers: INEC speaks on PDP, APC clash over inspection of election materials
After climbing to $14 billion in 2022, Forbes said his wealth is estimated to be around $14.2 billion based on the latest reports released on Tuesday.
Upon her emergence in November 2021, Mrs Buhari said she would construct a secretariat for the mission in Abuja, a promise she said she has fulfilled.
We the North-central have contributed largely to the development of APC and up to date we are still on it.
Cost of sales leapt by more than one-tenth to N18.2 billion as the spending on natural gas & fuel, as well as food and beverage, surged in a quarter when Nigeria’s cost of living crisis threw the inflation rate close to its peak in nearly eighteen years.
INEC supplies 5,931 ballot papers for two supplementary polls in Oyo
“People should not stand in the way of what the President has approved because, at the end of the day, all of us are there by his pleasure.
Others seizures were 2,600 bottles of codeine-based cough syrup packed in 26 cartons, three exotic bulletproof vehicles, 931 jumbo bales of second hand clothing and 484 bags of smuggled rice.
On Thursday, seven members of the National Working Committee of the party announced the National Vice-Chairman (South), Lamidi Apapa as its acting national chairman.
Both Atiku and Mr Obi are challenging Mr Tinubu’s victory.
The third count alleged that the defendants “did instigate, encourage, connive, by neglect on your part, allow Mr. Roger Thompson Brown, a non- Nigerian to accept employment as Chief Executive Officer of Seplat Energy PLC even after withdrawal of his immigration documents.”
You have to contact the commissioner for environment.”
Fear of reprisal grips Sokoto communities after terrorists attack that left many dead
In this difficult time for the families of those killed, the American Embassy and the Nigeria Police Force, NPF, I extend the nation’s condolences over the very sad incident,” he said.
The meeting was presided over by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo.
“There is such rumour of the ongoing onslaught in the military operations and the police in Zamfara forcing some terrorists to relocate to some parts of the state.
One, the region has never produced a Speaker since 1999, and secondly, in terms of performance, the ruling party won four out of the six states in the region in the presidential election.
“We must ensure that the electoral processes are brought to a final, peaceful conclusion.
“Starting today (Tuesday), you can log into the same WhatsApp account on up to four phones,” his post reads.
My ADC was from Kano and he was a Muslim and I was asking people to carry ID cards and I was demolishing where they go to worship?
For now, the most urgent mission is to start a psychological journey of making Nigerians feel whole again, of creating a large tent of opportunity and hope for us all, of expanding the frontiers of our collective freedom, of cutting off the chains of ethnicity and religious bigotry, of
Mr Nwabuzor, a police superintendent, said the suspects who were arrested in military uniforms claimed to be personnel of the two security agencies.
In the 1960s, Mr Enahoro went into a self-imposed exile that would last for 13 years.
But in a show of simmering dispute between the couple, her husband said during the interview that he neither saw nor signed the joint petition, and formally withdrew from the joint application.
He said Mr Magu was “volubility” adding that former anti-graft czar “enjoyed listening to himself often recklessly.”
The senators-elect visited Mr Tinubu in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital, after he commissioned projects on the invitation of the State Governor, Nyesom Wike.
As Khartoum airport is currently closed, “you have to get overland to a nearby airfield, but we have very well-prepared special forces,” Ms Robles was quoted as saying.
But they were found guilty in March by the Westminster Magistrate Court in what has been described as the first verdict of its kind under the Modern Slavery Act.
The proof of service of the ruling dated 5 April was on a case between Jude Okeke and APGA & others, which was delivered by a five-member panel of the Supreme Court on 24 March.
• Patrick Abba Moro Benue South
The woman will be prosecuted after police investigation, according to an official.
“The attention of the Minister of Labour and Employment, Sen. Chris Ngige has been drawn to press releases and statements in the media that the Federal Government disapproved of the NLC using the Eagle Square for the annual May Day parade.
Mr Braimah explained that while the board was not happy shutting down the market, “it will be failing in its responsibility, if the market is allowed to operate in its current deplorable condition.”
He explained that the pre-deployment training was aimed at refreshing and polishing troops’ knowledge and expertise in peace-support operations.
Then President Cyril Ramaphosa replaced Mr Zuma, and the steps to withdraw were shelved and eventually dropped, in March this year.
She said it was “perplexing” that INEC ignored “so many glaring red flags” in its rush to declare results of the presidential poll without investigating allegations of the irregularities.
These numbers paint a concerning picture of the state of press freedom in Nigeria.
”The court cannot hear a matter which is exclusively within the jurisdiction of another state,” he held.
It is his fundamental right!
The magazine also acknowledged the controversies that have since engulfed the electoral process that produced Mr Tinubu as the president-elect.
As such, there is seemingly hardship and challenges in Nigeria,” he said.
FEC approves N3.04 billion for photometric, taxi lighting systems at airports
This can result in somebody having issues with his/her National Identification Number (NIN),” he said.
“We are on the right path and we will remain committed to the course,” he said.
“The Presidency’s attempt to mock Governor Ortom over the loss of his senatorial seat and the PDP in the Governorship has furthermore strengthened our belief that the massive deployment of security personnel for the elections in the state was planned and hatched in the presidential villa and supervised by agents of the APC,” he said.
“The pre-deployment training focused on both tactical, as well as contemporary cross-cutting issues like sexual exploitation and abuse, conflict-related sexual violence, conduct and discipline as well as protection of civilians amongst others.
• Mwadkwon Simon Davou Plateau North
In his inaugural speech, Mr Iwuanyanwu pledged to secure the release of separatist leader Nnamdi Kanu who is being prosecuted for treason by the federal government.
He will also forfeit cash in Emirati dirhams, among other assets.
In Osun, the state chapter of the PDP also applauded the judgment.
The former governor raised concerns about the growing rate of youth unemployment.
“For our nation, the task of deepening our democracy, enhancing social cohesion and improving the overall well-being of our citizens remains a work in progress, requiring good faith, mutual trust and sincerity of purpose to get us to the desired destination.
Mr Afam informed his colleagues that no one showed interest, saying, however, that the caucus remains united.
Their argument is that, upon summing up costs of tuition, housing and living in Sudan, its education is usually cheaper than those of other countries.
He stressed that it was time for Ndi Igbo to “leverage on their unity, compromise and understanding to craft and construct a pathway towards their political liberation” in next elections.
Asked whether the payment to the finance minister’s wife was a bribe, Murray said: “That is how it looks.”
The continent has no real intention of establishing a viable African Court though.
The police in Lagos said the officers were on special assignment and not on patrol.
IFA said 35 PWDs participated in the 2023 election but none won.
According to the IFPIM, only 0.3 per cent of overseas development assistance (ODA) — around $430 million — goes to supporting media globally.
This view was expressed by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo in his keynote speech last night as Special Guest of Honour at the 5th Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council (PEBEC) Awards, which was held at the State House Banquet Hall, Abuja.
“Killing him in the most gruesome manner through mob action is not only barbaric, it is illegal and unacceptable,” she stated.
On Saturday, a leaked telephone conversation between Mr Obi and influential cleric David Oyedepo was published by People’s Gazette.
The buses cost $1.2 million, an official announced Wednesday.
This gross abuse of historic licence actually provides smug satisfaction for rookie activists.
The President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, has called for capacity building of members of the 10th National Assembly to ensure effective service delivery.
How Peter Obi spent Easter in detention in London
The members-elect, drawn from the seven minority parties, said they would use their numerical strength to elect the Speaker and Deputy Speaker of the House.
Bola Tinubu, the candidate of the APC secured the highest number of votes and a breakdown of data shows that he gained more votes than his rivals in three out of the six geopolitical zones.
All is well and we’re good to go.”
Rescheduled Mock UTME: JAMB urges candidates to print slip
The case was adjourned to 25 May for continuation of hearing.
Asked if he had reached the state government over the ownership claims by the army authorities, Mr Ugwuoke said the state government was surprised at the army claims when he reported the matter to them.
This newspaper earlier reported details of the charges.
“Co-ordinate, monitor and evaluate the various sectoral policies and programmes for efficient and effective performance through periodic oversight engagements by the standing committees.
While identity-based voting has been a usual feature on the Nigerian political scene, the emergence of third-force candidates at the frontlines of the 2023 election increased its relevance
The petitioners allege INEC’s non-compliance with the Electoral Act as well as other fraudulent practices by Mr Tinubu and his agents during the election.
The Lagos State Domestic and Sexual Violence Response Agency (DSVA) also tweeted on Saturday morning that it is on the case and that it would be transferred to the Gender unit of the Lagos State Police Command before it is charged to court on Monday.
FUTURE OF LEGAL PRACTICE COMMITTEE
“Meanwhile, around two-thirds of emergency childbirth facilities in sub-Saharan Africa are not considered fully functional – meaning they lack essential resources like medicines and supplies, water, electricity or staffing for 24-hour care.”
Having worked with me in that part, he did not stop at that, he ensured that I have the resources that I also got through the murky water, and survived the Labour tsunami in a predominantly urban and mixed community like Okigwe North.
Since then, nobody has had peace.
Mr Soli, a lawmaker from Katsina State was very direct in his speech.
PREMIUM TIMES reported that the ruling party has yet to decide on the zoning of the offices, however, most of the candidates have been campaigning across the country.
I asked, ‘Are you talking to me, Uncle?’ He said, ‘Name your price, I want to touch those things that you are holding’ (referring to her breast),” she recounted.
The vice president narrated this story on Monday at the Maiden Edition of the Policy Making & Good Governance Lecture Series of NIPSS.
However, while the World Health Organisation (WHO) is yet to give go-ahead for its roll-out, both Nigeria and Ghana’s drug regulators have approved it domestically for children between the ages of five months and three years old.
Kogi Governorship Primaries: Court dismisses suit seeking to nullify PDP delegates’ list
He said the maintenance works would restore the driving surface and the aesthetics.
The development leaves Mr Tinubu with three remaining petitions against his victory to battle in court.
“The party charges Nigerian workers to use their strength and pivotal position in our country to protect and defend the nation’s constitutional democracy from political manipulators, who are desperate to dash the hope of Nigerians for a credible democratic leadership,” he added.
More than 180 people facing various charges have been killed by police in the state in the past six years.
He added that both countries would continue to strengthen efforts against insecurity.
He also promised to prioritise bills that are aimed at improving the lives of our constituents – such as affordable healthcare, security, education and job creation, while fostering a spirit of bipartisanship and cooperation in the House.
Mr Rinamsomte said he decided to inform the judge so that the court could take judicial notice of what transpired between him and Mr Njoku earlier in the morning
The party, in a statement on Wednesday by its National Publicity Secretary, Felix Morka, said the attacks on its members are being sponsored by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).
Fascism is the government that did not come out to address the very tangible and palpable discontent in this country.
We are angry: We want justice:
“The petition as presently constituted amounts to a pre-election matter of nomination and sponsorship of candidate(s).
The Labour Party’s Mr Obi resoundingly won Abuja by securing 58.85 per cent of the votes in the capital city.
Mr Idoatan, therefore, called on Mr Buhari to sign the bill into law before the end of his tenure on 29 May.
The judge, Ahmad Abubakar, convicted Salahu Yau; Aminu Salmanu; Salmanu Shafi’u; and Yusuf Sale to death by hanging punishable under Section 221(b) of the Penal Code (Cap.
This is also not being complied with.
This procurement will ensure both willing and unwilling aircraft in our airspace are promptly detected.
“The only way our society can be saner and compete favourably with the western world is when evil people, no matter their influence and affluence, power and position, can no longer evade justice in the law court.
Mr Obi and the LP are contesting the outcome of the 25 February presidential election through his petition marked CA/PEPC/03/2023.
He explained that while the PDP candidate polled 93,120 at the election, the first runner-up, the candidate of the APC, polled 79,444 votes.
Though Nigeria remains in the fourth position, its index score improved significantly between 2015 to date, Dataphyte reported.
Mr Lagbaja, a major-general, said: “I was also informed of your commendable performance during the pre-deployment training.”
“We have been known to do things that better civilization everywhere we go.
The police accused the defendants of engaging the services of some officials of the Supreme Court who inserted Mr Njoku’s name on the judgement, which Mr Njoku allegedly tendered to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the Inspector General of Police.
The NBS said in terms of revenue, N232.32 billion was generated by the DisCos in Q4 2022 compared to N202.62 billion in Q3 2022.
The two journalists gave reasons why their conviction on defamation charges by a magistrate’s court in Ilorin, Kwara State, would not stand.
In a statement issued by the media office of the governor-elect, Dauda Lawal, on Wednesday, the party expressed concern about the alleged interference of the Inspector General of Police in the politics of Zamfara State.
“Besides all the government has done for doctors and other workers in the health sector, such as upward review of hazard allowances, the Nigeria Medical Association (NMA) was already negotiating with the Federal Ministry of Health, National Salaries, Incomes and Wages Commission and the Presidential Committee on Salaries on a pay rise for doctors.
“To the Osun Governor, Senator Ademola Nurudeen Jackson Adeleke, I take this opportunity to congratulate you on your victory at the Supreme Court.
Agriculture exports grew 180.7% by 2017 above the value in 2015.
The fight followed the installation of a new monarch, Yakubu Abubakar, by the state governor Darius Ishaku.
They also seek a consequential order directing that the N2 billion payable for the purchase of the shares of the petitioners “shall be paid jointly and severally by the 1st to 4th, 6th, and the 8th to12th respondents to the petitioners within three days from the date of judgment, and upon default, with interest at the prevailing bank rate.
The vice president also commended the private sector for “its commitment and collaboration, especially their contributions in technical support and capacity building.
“Records indicate that since the return of democratic rule in 1999, the South-east geopolitical zone is the only zone yet to have the opportunity to produce a speaker of the House of Representatives.
The report said between November and March, Bauchi State experienced a sharp spike in the cost of making a pot of Jollof rice.
Chukujekwu Aneke of the Federal High Court in Ikoyi, Lagos, issued the order of final forfeiture of the assets on Friday.
The National Assembly has passed the bill and presented it to Mr Buhari for assent before it can become law.
This made it exhausting because there are other angles to achieve a good twist besides sex.
The violence has pitched Sudan’s regular army against a paramilitary group, the Rapid Support Forces (RSF).
Let those who have not done so, do so immediately,” Mr Fagbemi said.
There is no state that PDP is governed that has not seen development.
I have always lived my life in the most law-abiding manner,” he said.
The ruling party is yet to take a position on the zoning of the principal offices, however, some of them have started to campaign in anticipation of the decision of the party.
Protesting under the umbrella of Yoruba Afenifere Youth Organisation of Nigeria (YAYON), the youth marched to the Akure residence of the aged leader of the group, Reuben Fasoranti, calling on him to intervene in the Afenifere crisis.
The official, who refuted the allegations in the Niger Delta Amnesty Programme lawyers’ letter dated 23 February, denied liability for the payment of the sum of N319.8 million.
The confirmation followed the adoption of the report of Senate Committee on National Planning and Economic Affairs.
I don’t know how that benefits people,” the governor said.
It is therefore granted in the terms sought.”
A couple of hours after we opened the polls, I received a call that BIVAS machines were hijacked.
They were alleged to have at various times, unlawfully retained over N4.6 billion which they reasonably ought to have known formed part of the proceeds of unlawful acts of stealing and corruption.
As a result, she barred him from playing computer games and told the father about the development.
He was a features writer and head of the business desk at The Pioneer Newspapers, a former senior special assistant (public affairs) to the Akwa Ibom State Governor and chief lecturer at the Akwa Ibom State Polytechnic, where he currently works.
“Today’s ceremony is a continuation of our efforts to reinvigorate the fighting secret of our troops through the inculcation of greater pride in their units.
We are engaging traditional rulers to curb transborder crimes – NIS
“A court of competent jurisdiction only yesterday ordered that I, Julius Abure remain the National Chairman, and should not be restrained from performing my duties, it, therefore baffles me why the Nigerian Police should allow itself to be used to perpetrate illegalities,” the chairman said.
Nigerian woman arrested for physically abusing 9-year-old house help
The Forum was followed by a public concert on Saturday evening featuring some of the biggest names in African music, including Nyashinski, Femi One, Otile Brown and Youssou N’Dour.
The call to leadership is one laced with responsibilities and unalloyed commitment to the commonwealth of Nigerians, expressed through a unanimous ballot casting which led to your victories in your various States, The journey to nation-building has commenced, and we are here once again to steer the ship where the collective voices of the Nigerian people, whose trust has been vested in us, have been total to an admirable end.\
Head, Media & Publicity
Keep the dreams, but know the contours of the long road ahead.
“We are here to let him know that elections are over – this is governance and we will do our best to give him support,” Mr Makinde said.
He said the deceased had to sell most of his properties to set up a private university.
The Peoples Democratic Party Governors’ Forum and the presidential candidate of the party in the last election, Atiku Abubakar, have congratulated the governor of Osun State, Ademola Adeleke, on his 63rd birthday.
Binani had filed the suit to seek an order validating an illegal declaration by an official of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) awarding her victory in the election.
Comfort Ero, President and CEO of the International Crisis Group: “States compete, there’s competition, whether we like it or not.
According to the NBS, the food inflation rate quickened to 24.46 per cent in March from 24.35 per cent in the previous month.
According to Mr Edafe, the police operatives in the state on Monday arrested three suspects that specialise in robbing people at nights along the Airport Road in the state.
These plans are dangerous and devilish.
President-Elect, Federal Republic of Nigeria
“RULACC is shocked that after the events of #EndSARS in October 2020 and its aftermath, a police officer could still engage in such reckless abuse of firearms and abuse of police authority, to kill a fellow citizen for refusing to pay bribe of N100 at a checkpoint,” the group stated.
“Publications were done in national dailies and advertorial jingles in local radio stations, warning people of the risks in purchasing and building on restricted aviation land.”
Court strikes out property forfeiture suit against Kogi governor Bello
Mr Lael expressed the programme’s concern that years of armed conflict in northeast Nigeria had contributed to hunger and malnutrition among people with millions in need of life-saving assistance and so much at risk of famine.
Since the conclusion of the election about two months ago, the LP presidential flagbearer and his supporters have been criticised for claiming he won the election without providing concrete evidence.
He joined the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), the winner of the election and president-elect, Bola Tinubu, his running mate, Kashim Shettima, and the All Progressives Congress (APC), as defendants.
The United States on Monday announced that it had taken steps to impose visa bans on persons who disrupted the recent general elections in Nigeria.
•Covering dustbins and disposing of refuse properly: NCDC advised that communities should set up dump sites very far from their homes to reduce the chances of having rodents within homes.
“The IGP has equally ordered a speedy and full investigation into the remote and immediate cause(s) of the assault and prosecution of the suspect accordingly,” the statement read.
Mr Obi is one of the 18 presidential candidates in the presidential election conducted in February.
Mr Eno, however, admitted, that the media played a “crucial part” in his election, and that he has respect for journalism profession, which is why the Nigeria Union of Journalists, Akwa Ibom State Council, was among the early set of groups he consulted at the beginning of his “gubernatorial journey” in February 2022.
191 – This will be Carlo Ancelotti’s 191st game as a manager in the UEFA Champions League, the outright most of any coach in the competition’s history (overtaking Alex Ferguson, 190).
The report said the North-Central Jollof Index revealed varying price trends between different markets.
Tribunal strikes out NNPP, APP petitions against Governor Abiodun’s election
Mr Keyamo also said the unsavory reactions to his video clip showed that he was being underrated.
Mr Ndukwe said both the suspect and the victim had travelled on 1 April from the Ogidi Community in Anambra State to the Amori Community in Nkanu West Local Government Area of Enugu State to visit a native doctor, identified as Onyeka Edeh.
He said the security outfit was in the habit of serving them with their processes late to delay the hearing.
The other suspects paraded by the police on Wednesday include five suspected of cultism, eight armed robbers, and one said to be a serial killer.
However, the participation was still abysmal — with 3 out of 10 people who registered and collected voting cards casting their ballots.
The president had sent the names of the nominees led by an Edo State politician, Pius Odubu, to the Senate in October.
He is expected to continue his campaign for the presidency as the US constitution does not require that the president be free from indictment, conviction or prison; thus a person under indictment or in prison may run for the office and may even serve as president.
PREMIUM TIMES earlier reported how a supervisor at Dantata Universal Services CBT centre at Government Secondary School, Zone 3, said the assessment body was responsible for the delay experienced during the second session of the examination on Tuesday.
Messrs Aivoji and Benedict had been suspended respectively by their ward executives on April 14 over alleged gross violation of the party’s constitution.
The South-east has five states namely, Enugu, Anambra, Ebonyi, Abia and Imo while the south-south region has two states which are Rivers and Delta States.
International Honorary Members have included Charles Darwin, Albert Einstein, Winston Churchill, Wislawa Szymborska, Laurence Olivier, Mary Leakey, Gabriel Garcia Márquez, Akira Kurosawa, and Nelson Mandela.
But Air Peace said the company has no “affiliation” with the state government and that the company was only committed to flying Nigerians who paid for the services.
“To ensure federal character as enshrined in the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999, as amended, and ethno-religious balancing, the senate president should be zoned to the South-east or South-south geo-political zones.”
Other committee members are the Country Director of DAI Nigeria, an international development company, Joe Abah; the Managing Director of the United Kingdom Nigeria Infrastructure Advisory Facility (UK-NIAF), Chidi Onyia.
FEC’s approval comes barely two weeks after the Lagos State Government promised to rehabilitate the bridge by repairing failed and peeled asphaltic sections and substructure.
He explained that Nigeria became the first African country to regulate methane emissions from its oil and gas sector in 2022, achieving the Global Methane Pledge (GMP) goal of cutting anthropogenic methane emissions by 30 per cent by 2030.
“Here in Adamawa, we are witnesses to a novel practice in election management where a Resident Electoral Commissioner announced the loser of an election as a winner.
The committee, consisting of excellent media professionals, scholars and veteran journalists, is charged with reviewing complaints from members of the news medium’s audiences from around the world.
Mr Ozekhome, however, said his filing was to reject SSS’ allegation in its counter-affidavit that Mr Kanu jumped bail.
“So we also urge candidates, particularly those who couldn’t sit for yesterday’s exercise to continue to check their profile to print their slips as they will be rescheduled to take the examinations.”
“The continuous silence and refusal of the Justices of the Supreme Court of Nigeria to set a date of hearing on the appeals brought before them by the federal government against the discharge and acquittal order from the Abuja Appeal Court has shown that the apex court is not neutral in this case.
The speaker also said that Nigeria’s democratic experience was still very young compared to others across the world and even in Africa.
Similarly, in 2018, the National Association of Resident Doctors (NARD) said at least 12 colleagues leave Nigeria every week to practice medicine overseas.
In 2004, he won a seat in the federal election as an SP candidate and became an MP.
“Afenifere is passing through internal crisis.
If we don’t take action, tell the world,” he said.
Thanks to all our customers for their patience & understanding.
The experts, who are members of the Nigerian Environmental Society, Abia State chapter, made the call on Saturday in Umuahia, in commemoration of the World Earth Day.
They lodged their complaints over the conduct of the election by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC).
b. Mrs. Catherine Agbo, Deputy Editor, 24th Century Chronicle
How APC’s ‘religious debt’ is shaping Senate Presidency, Reps Speakership battles
The offence, he said, is punishable under Section III of the Firearms Act CAP F28, LFN 2004 and contravened Section 97, 114 and 397 of the Penal Code.
“I hope that this year’s fellowship will equip the fellows to advocate the change of this narrative”, Mrs Alaka said.
The governor commended USAID, MCGL, Jhpiego, the state Ministry of Women Affairs, among other partners for their support so far in the state.
He added that Mr Tinubu surpassed the constitutionally stipulated 25 per cent of votes cast in each of at least two-thirds of all the states in the federation and the Federal Capital Territory.
He also assured that he would continue to pay monthly salaries in addition to other projects.
Mr Kalu expressed gratitude to God for Mr Tinubu’s successful vacation and safe return to Nigeria.
Labor Party Presidential Campaign Council, Press Release:
It will be the largest show of its kind in Britain since the coronation of Charles’ mother.
The Ijaw Youth Council has backed the proposal by the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) to explore the possibility of building a railway line that would connect all the states in the Niger Delta region.
He decreed men to have banana fingers to their fill
While a few of them were directing cars to ease the gridlock, others like the one pictured were ‘on guard.’
The formal screening of the princes then began on 5th September, this newspaper was told.
According to the petitioners, Mr Kwankwaso had directed that pension remittances be used for building houses for pensioners.
Mr Matawalle said Governor Bello, who hosted the meeting, unveiled his anointed candidate in the person of Mr Usman-Ododo.
To sustain that penalty is to give joy to others who turn Internet into a soakaway for their rancid emissions, yet feel that others should be silenced.
The police spokesperson in Akwa Ibom, Odiko MacDon confirmed the cult clash in a statement on Monday.
Mr Otti said his attention was drawn to “multiple reports of looting” going on in different government institutions and facilities in the state.
The Tinubu camp quickly denounced the text messages.
“Facts in support of the petition speak to intra —party issues, pre-election disputes and administrative actions of INEC triable by Federal High Court under Section 285 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria as altered by the 4th Alteration Act and outside the original jurisdiction of the Court of Appeal being a Presidential Election Petition Tribunal.”
Mr Salam said the NCC submitted the relevant documents late hence they could not go through them.
The Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, recently made some media rounds in the US and the UK.
“The CBN has been taking delivery of a good quantity of the redesigned banknotes from the Nigeria Security Printing and Minting Company Limited,” he said.
The All Progressives Congress (APC) has set aside the suspension of Barnabas Gemade and six others by the Benue State chapter of the party.
“He will be surely and sorely missed by his beloved Church, Methodist Church to which he gave his spiritual, intellectual and servant-leadership for more than two decades and the entire Body of Christ in Nigeria and Diaspora,” Mr Taiwo said.
But in his response, the counsel to the defendants, Femi Emodamore, told the court that they were fully prepared for the trial.
The judge, Jeremy Johnson, reserved sentence for a later date.
“I found it awkward and I told the Minister so.
“The Max Air aircraft has been towed away, the runway has been swept, inspected & certified.
“Since my assumption of office, we have arrested a lot of criminals terrorising the people and have prosecuted many of them,” he said.
Sudan: Dangote Foundation supports evacuation efforts
Similarly, the UK government has yet to provide any information surrounding Mr Obi’s ordeal in London.
This newspaper in June 2015 reported how the EFCC began an investigation into the alleged theft of N108.1 billion of Akwa Ibom State funds.
Abass Tajudeen (Kaduna)
He noted that the issue has re-emerged concerning Mr Tinubu.
According to him, she scored 14,891 votes to defeat her closest rival, Abdul-Mojeed Mogbonjubola of PDP, who scored 13,073.
Mr Zoungrana said this goal drives all of its engagements around the world “where they support and partner with governments, civil society, researchers, and innovators.”
I was called by the president-elect (Tinubu), and he told me, ‘I want you to allow Femi to be the speaker because Femi is retiring from the National Assembly.
Police say the officer died after a blow to his head by a man attempting to dispossess him of his gun.
Mr Atabo, in pursuant to Order 15 Rules 1 of the Kaduna State High Court (Civil Procedure) Rules 2007 and under the inherent jurisdiction of the honourable Court, dated and filed on 17 December 2020, prayed for an order setting aside and/or nullifying the purported notice of revocation of Certificate of Occupancy No.
Accident claims three lives on Lagos-Ibadan Expressway — Official
He alleged that INEC manipulated the presidential election in favour of Mr Tinubu.
The council, led by Bernadette Nwachukwu as chairman, approved Mrs Okorie’s appointment on Friday, said a statement by the acting registrar , Linus Okoko.
Since then, AMCON has offered the obligor a good measure of olive branches and explored all avenues to resolve the matter amicably, but the obligor and his company, Glano Nigeria Limited, remained recalcitrant and unwilling to repay the huge debt to the Corporation.
You cannot criticise African countries for being non-democratic while at the same time endorsing something that was quite evidently undemocratic.
Bola Ajibola, ex-International Court of Justice judge, is dead
To have been elected into the American Academy of Arts and Sciences is no mean achievement, which is a testament to his high academic quality and deep knowledge.
“The command’s tactical teams and DPOs were there and then given a marching order to take the battle to the doorsteps of the criminals wherever they may be across the state.
The UN Secretary-General, António Guterres, will hold a virtual meeting on Thursday with the AU Chairperson, the Secretary-General of the Arab League, the Executive Secretary of the East African bloc, IGAD, and other leaders on the crisis in Sudan.
“Rather, what is at play is nothing but orchestrated falsehood arising from extreme hallucination due to alliance and communication with the devil by the author.
Over 400 people have been killed in Sudan due to fighting between the army and paramilitary RSF, both headed by army generals.
“Whether by a true interpretation and construction of the 1999 Constitution and Section 6 of the National Population Commission Act, the aim, intent, importance and purpose of the 2023 Census will not be defeated for lack of adequate preparation, lack of adequate awareness and publicity and paucity of funds.
Two other leading candidates in the election – Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party and his Labour Party counterpart, Peter Obi – came second and third respectively.
According to him, the command also sustained effective patrol of its maritime area of responsibility as well as undertook several “clearance and swamp buggy operations” in the backwaters.
Senate condemns plateau killings, urges security agencies to arrest perpetrators
The Interior Minister, Rauf Aregbesola, says the categories of the citizenship granted to the applicants are by naturalisation and by registration.
Carry me go – Boy Spyce and Khaid
Mind you, the girl child who is also a youth is a woman.
Mr Doguwa was detained over alleged complicity in the murder of three members of his constituency a few months ago.
By 2022, China had one of the world’s lowest fertility rates, which was 1.2 births per woman on average over a lifetime, according to the UN World Population Prospects 2022 report.
• Sunday Steve Karimu – Kogi West
The minister said he told his audience in the U.S. that the president prevented the use of security agencies to rig elections.
The NBA stands with and assures his family of our full support in this trying period, even as we join in praying for his safe return home.
He will work with the system to ensure that my interest is protected.
“No need to preempt what the community will do, but certainly those who are real Awkuzu elites will say something,” Mr Anikweze added.
It listed other members as the Acting Deputy National Secretary, Rotimi Kehinde and the National Vice Chairman South-South, Anthony Ezeagwu.
Our swagger is gone.
All 15 occupants of a Toyota bus were killed and burnt beyond recognition on Saturday when the bus had a head-on collision with a Mercedes truck on the Port Harcourt-Enugu Highway.
They include the power to summon the president; Inclusion of former heads of the National Assembly in the Council of State; and reduction of the period within which the president or the governor of a state may authorise the withdrawal of monies from the Consolidated Revenue Fund in the absence of an Appropriations Act from six months to three months.
He said the suspect offered the policemen who arrested him N1 million bribe which was rejected.
The group added that its researchers observed: “Constant gas flaring, which contributes towards toxic air, water, and land.
Dankarami and his gang were known for raiding villages and towns in Zamfara and attacking security personnel.
The National Coordinator of the programme, Abdulsalam Ibrahim, in a statement on Tuesday, said the goal of the Nigeria Spelling Bee Competition was to promote literacy among Nigerian students, and reward learning with amazing opportunities.
Urging the Nigerian government to uphold human rights by ensuring that Sharia law and other similar legislations “do not deny Nigerians protection,” the parliament asked the government “to repeal the blasphemy laws at federal and state level.”
Many of those approached by me have given their support, and I won’t disappoint them,” he noted.
“The congresses were held from ward to local government to the state level, and the officers of the party were elected.
Mr Melemi stated that Mr Bomai, a serving senator, scored 69,596 votes to defeat Halilu Mazagane of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) who scored 68,885 votes.
But she ought to have said something.
Nigeria’s president-elect, Bola Tinubu, says Atiku Abubakar’s allegations of “corrupt practices” during the 25 February presidential election has no legal backing.
Mr Oyeyemi said “the armed robbery gang stormed the market in the evening and started shooting sporadically and creating fear and stealing expensive phones.”
It said further that the officer also noticed disturbances at the state assembly collation centre, as a result of which, he said he had to escape from the centre without making any presentation of his results.
Mrs Adichie’s letter was countered by Yemi Oke, who penned down an open letter to Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and Mr Biden
Projects will commence with taxpayers’ money and it won’t be completed, another similar project will be initiated due to political interest.
It’s been messy to the extent that the narrative, especially online, of the opposition in the camp of the second runner in the presidential election, is extremely befuddling, having thrown all caution to the wind.
Sola Fasure, the media adviser to the Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, whose office oversees the correctional facilities, made this known in a statement on Saturday in Abuja.
With malaria accounting for 60 per cent of outpatient visits to the nation’s health facilities; 30 per cent of childhood deaths; 11 per cent of maternal death, and 25 per cent of deaths in infants, Nigeria is said to contribute a huge 27 per cent to the global malaria burden.
His appointment, according to him, was contained in a letter dated 5 April, and signed by the Vice Chancellor of the university, O.M.
The Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, says the claim that there is a 17 million housing deficit in Nigeria is false and not backed by evidence.
The father confessed to the crime of repeatedly raping his teenage daughter.
“So, we are all welcome to Benue as we move in there.”
Tajudeen Abbas (APC, Kaduna), Aminu Jaji (APC, Zamfara), Ben Kalu (APC, Abia), and Miriam Onuoha (APC, Imo) are also in the race.
If they come at us through land, air and sea, we will respond to them through land, air and sea but, we will remain law abiding and will never give up on the nation.
He listed such critical legislations that were key to good governance and service delivery in the public sector including the Deep off-shore and inland basin production sharing contracts (amendment) Act, 2019.
The announcement on Thursday signals the latest twist in the scramble for Transcorp, whose flagship energy business is the latest lure for billionaire investor Femi Otedola.
Mr Yilwatda advised the PDP to concentrate on putting up its defence if at all it has any, rather than embarking on a wild goose chase, which at end of the day, would not yield any result.
It also sought an order of interim injunction restraining the respondents either by themselves or agents from taking further steps “to further harass the applicant, directors and staff.”
Others were the African Union of Development Agency -New Partnership for African Development Bill, the African Union Convention for the Protection and Assistance of Internally Displaced Persons Domestication and Enforcement Bill and the Institute of Chartered Islamic Finance Professionals Establishment Bill.
“Experience that is priceless as Nigeria and her neighbours embark on important “Great Green Wall” project, this know how and experience are priceless for the world, where forests so necessary to deal with climate crisis are dying from heat, drought and diseases.
The National Working Committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC) met today, Monday, May 8, 2023, to consider reports of consultations and meetings held with the President-Elect, His Excellency, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, other Party leaders and stakeholders on zoning arrangements for 10th National Assembly leadership positions.
The IGP assured Nigerians of the commitment of the Nigeria Police Force to ensuring the safety and security of all citizens and visitors.
This Tyre burst incident does not and, will never, detract from Max Air’s well-known safety standards.”
On 15 April, an armed conflict between rival factions of the military government of Sudan began when clashes broke out in western Sudan, in the capital city of Khartoum, and in the Darfur region of the country.
“Tambuwal having satisfied the requirements of law has been declared the winner and returned elected,” Mr Bagudo said.
The lawmakers made the commitment on Tuesday during the inauguration of the coalition, known as “Joint Task,” in Abuja.
“This was done without the final collation of the results and without requisite legal authority, thereby usurping the power of the Returning Officer for the election,” Toyo Jimmy, director of advocacy for the group said in a statement.
Ms Adichie said she was surprised to see the US government congratulating Mr Tinubu despite widespread cases of irregularities in the election and “rage brewing among young people” against the process.
“Even after the registration exercise, candidates were still allowed to submit their NIN for upload.
The ruling APC has 177 members-elect, while the PDP has 116 members.
He thanked Mr Osinbajo for his selflessness and passion for excellence in the execution of tasks assigned to his office, acknowledging all of his visits to the different parts of the country to identify with the common people.
Earlier on Thursday, Mr Otedola said the board of the company brought forward the deadline of a previously announced close period to suit insiders’ interest.
“This Bureau is investigating a case of Conduct likely to Cause Breach of Peace, Violation of Oath of Neutrality, Impersonating a Collation/Returning Officer, Disobedience to lawful Order/Directive, Impersonation and Announcing False Governorship Result of the just concluded Adamawa State Governorship supplementary election of 15th April, 2023 in which your name featured prominently,” part of the invitation date, 27 April and sighted by PREMIUM TIMES, reads.
“Already, 283 members-elect, comprising both returning and new members, have endorsed the coalition, which awaits the decision of the ruling APC on the zoning of the various offices.
He has 99,198 votes to the 97,147 scored by Mr Lamido of the APC.
The R21/Matrix-M vaccine is the second to ever be approved by the WHO and the first to exceed the WHO threshold of 75 per cent efficacy over 12 months of follow-up.
She said before the charge was read to the defendant, who was not represented in court by a counsel, the Chief Magistrate, Genevieve Osakwe, duly informed the defendant of his constitutional right to a defence counsel of his choice.
Prosecutors and their witnesses have claimed that Mr Massaquoi, now 53, introduced himself by the controversial name to civilians or his fellow soldiers at Waterside in Monrovia before killing them.
Orlandi said that he had heard that Wojtyla had gone out every evening with two friends, both of whom were Polish priests, and certainly not to “bless the houses.”
She is the 8th substantive registrar of the institution.
He said that the state Commissioner of Police Maiyaki Muhammed-Baba had ordered the transfer of the case to the state Criminal Investigation Department, Lafia, for an exhaustive investigation.
According to Forbes, the list, which came out Tuesday, with 2460 individual billionaires globally, has a couple of surprises.
He said he decided to cry out after the State Security Service (SSS) withdrew its officers attached to him and the police reduced their own.
Now, he has not paid for two months maybe he thinks he is doing us a favour.
Specifically, sub-sections 2–4 mandate public institutions to publish public records in different accessible forms for information seekers.
Another notable project is the proposed $20 billion Brass LNG plant, which is awaiting a final investment decision, and is projected to add an additional 30 per cent capacity on top of NLNG Train 7,” the report noted.
It would also advance Nigerians’ right to freely participate in their own government.”
Do not revile them.
“If the community can get help like this in times of need, things will be a lot better.
Every day, I take a commercial motorcycle to and fro.
That is why every parliamentarian must rise to the occasion to defend the institution.
Despite the protest, the NWC still ratified the zoning arrangement.
READE IPI NIGERIA’s STATEMENT IN FULL
The judge, Yunusa Muhammad, granted him bail in the sum of N500m, with the condition that the suspect must provide two sureties, one of which shall be a first-class traditional ruler while the other must be a permanent secretary at the federal or state civil service.
A little over a year ago, the Pirkanmaa District Court of Tampere acquitted Mr Massaquoi of all charges because, it said prosecutors did not prove them “beyond a reasonable doubt,” including that he sneaked out of a “safe house” of the UN-backed Special Court for Sierra Leone, where he was a “protected witness” and came to Liberia to fight in the war.
It also shared a picture of people queued up which it captioned “at the registration point this morning.”
“Social investment was mainly in projects related to community, health, education, road safety and enterprise programmes.
The offender, 66, initially got away with 22 months imprisonment at the end of his trial at the Crown Court in Woolwich, South-east London, which the government disagreed with.
But speaking on the president’s request, the Senate spokesperson said relevant committees of the Senate will contact relevant agencies in consideration of the loan request.
Four suspected vandals have been arrested by the police in the state, says an official.
After the counts were read to the defendants, they both pleaded not guilty.
The African Development Bank has announced the appointment of Marie-Laure Akin-Olugbade, a Cameroonian national, as Vice President for its Regional Development, Integration, and Business Delivery complex.
” However, the exercise ran into some technical hitches in some centres, thereby denying some candidates the opportunity to sit for the examination.
Another prominent Fuji proponent, King Wasiu Ayinde Marshal, also known as KWAM1 or K1 De Ultimate, gave the genre a modern flavour.
The Supreme Court has just made a ruling that does not make sense to a lot of people.
They said the result of the ward “certified” by INEC showed that the Labour Party scored a total valid vote of 497 votes, whilst the PDP candidate scored 1410 votes.
The Jigawa State governor-elect, Umar Namadi, has pledged to consolidate on the achievements of the administration of his predecessor, Muhammad Badaru, after he is sworn in on 29th May
“There is no timeline to that, we are not in a hurry.
“The Pension Act did not abolish gratuity payment and we demand its restoration in many public sectors where it has been stopped,” the labour leader said.
FG airlifts 2,371 stranded Nigerians from war-torn Sudan
Mr Ifeanyi, who hopes to study law in the university, described the examination process as “excellent.”
“So I think people were just trying to be mischievous.
Mr Ologunagba claimed that some leaders of the APC are inducing members of the panel sitting on the presidential election tribunal with “heavy financial inducement.”
The hearings will continue on Monday, with more witnesses expected to testify.
The group argued that the North-west has not done enough to warrant taking two key positions at the expense of the North-central.
Red Cross to cut 1,500 jobs amidst financial crisis
I am confident that my colleagues have reposed a lot of confidence in me and I have proven my competence and credibility by my engagement and interaction with other members.
Although some research has been done on people in the criminal justice system who are Indigenous, Black or people of colour, it tends to focus mainly on their “victimization and historical positionality as oppressed persons or contemporary clients,” the press statement announcing the fellowship quoted him as saying.
Prof Yemi Akinseye-George, SAN – CHAIRMAN
The resident doctors comprise the bulk of doctors in Nigeria’s tertiary hospitals; hence health activities are mostly crippled when they are on strike.
APM’s petition asked the Presidential Election Petition Court to declare Atiku Abubakar, who came second in the poll, as the president-elect.
We believe we are being discriminated against.
“This rerun was conducted in immediate local government not even my home local government.
All offences were said to have contravened the provisions of sections 15 (3) (4), 16 (2) (b), and 16 (5) of the Money Laundering (Prohibition) (Amendment) Act, 2012.
Terrorism: 1,052 killed, 4,227 abducted, 648 injured in Kaduna in 2022
They are still third parties.
According to her, the fake LinkedIn account has the WhatsApp number 07069777732 and is intended to defraud innocent members of the public under the guise of offering them employment.
Meanwhile, cases continued to be filed against him in Allahabad and other parts of the state.
Nigeria’s DisCos generated N434 billion in Q3, Q4 2022 – Report
The supplementary election was conducted in eight wards in Tudunwada local government.
Mr Osuntokun and other party stalwarts had taken their seats in the gallery in the courtroom, when Mr Apapa and his colleagues accosted the former, demanding that they vacate the seats.
The NIS spokesperson said the CG has vowed to discipline officers who go out of their way to try to either engage or sabotage the reform process.
The Senate had in November 2019, confirmed the 15 nominees sent by Mr Buhari as NDDC board members.
However, the Nigerian government had since hinted at a decline in COVID-19 infections and fatalities when they relaxed the COVID-19 travel protocols in December 2023.
But the CAC expressed dissatisfaction with the judgement.
She pointed out that some of the buildings in the barracks had been marked for demolition by the Lagos State Government officials, as most of the buildings were no longer safe for habitation.
He did not just support my primaries, Mr Wike provided his private jet to drop me at Kogi airstrip on the day of my primary and was calling me every minute to find out where are we, are we succeeded, meaning that Wike saw something in me in 2019 when he supported me, he knew I was fit to be governor hence his investment as the case may be.
Ohanaeze condemns attacks on Igbos in Lagos, asks Buhari to take action
The police said they recovered an AK 47 rifle, a revolver pistol and cartridges.
• Udende Memsa Emmanuel – Benue North East
NAN reports that the unions are demanding the immediate release of the reviewed Condition of Service, implementation of the minimum wage consequential adjustments and payment of arrears for the Nigeria Meteorological Agency (NiMet) since 2019.
A similar cleanup in the neighbouring Rivers State has suffered several years of delay.
On security issues, the governor called for prayers over the ugly incident where some people including policemen were reportedly killed by suspected bandits around Dako Wasagu Local Government Area of the state.
“Having considered all the facts presented by SERAP on the need for the suit and the Counter-Affidavit against same, I find no reason why the order of mandamus should not be granted.
The statement condemned electoral violence and the use of security agencies to intimidate voters and perpetrate other crimes in parts of the country.
Two banks (First Bank and Access Bank) have resumed, except the UBA that was seriously damaged.”
The book is titled Post-Election Assessment of Conflict Management Mechanisms in Nigeria, 2019 and Beyond.
Usually they get $100 just to hold and these are students coming back to their families.
Around six protesters, who were unloading a van of placards, were arrested.
“The corps member was shot; he is still in the hospital,’’ he said.
The relationship between the APC at the national level and the Rivers State chapter could best be described as lukewarm since the presidential election.
An explanation for the lateness was given in the Notice of Appeal, the document said.
The president appreciates the contributions of Professor Haruna in the development of the engineering infrastructure sub-sector of the economy, and wishes him success in his future endeavours.
The victim had since been taken to hospital for proper medical attention, the statement added.
But BON in a letter said the sale of the frequency would lead to the sudden disappearance of the majority of the television stations in the country and give foreign media maximum penetration into the nation’s broadcast space.
This followed the adoption of the report of senate Committee on Banking, Insurance and other Financial Institution at plenary on Tuesday.
Through PEBEC reforms, Nigeria has improved an aggregate of 39 places in the World Bank Doing Business index since 2016.
Mr Sirika disclosed this while speaking to State House correspondents on the outcome of the Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting in Abuja on Monday.
“NNPC Limited is also investing heavily in critical gas infrastructure such as the Ajaokuta-Abuja-Kano (AKK) gas pipeline and the OB3 gas interconnector to support 5 Bscf/d of domestic gas utilization including 5 GW of power generation capacity by developing power plant projects along the AKK pipeline corridor and across the country to complement the existing ones,” Mr Kyari said.
He added that lives and wellbeing of Nigerians must trump other considerations for the country to realise its aspirations for greatness.
The minister disclosed this in a tweet posted on his official Twitter handle late Sunday evening.
The Supreme Court has directed Nigeria’s electoral umpire, INEC, to act and recognise Edozie Njoku as the national chairman of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA).
Social media represents different things to different people.
“They are once again reminded to avail themselves of this opportunity at our Local Government offices to inspect these materials as earlier advised,” Mr Sinikiem said.
“Let us come together in love and unity, and work towards building a better Lagos for ourselves and for generations to come.”
Mr Gandi commended the NGO for reporting the case to the command while urging other victims in the society who were dying in silence to come out and report such cases.
She noted that there are also plans to ensure the spices used for the indomie and other noodles in Nigeria are tested.
We have a stake in this because we also have top traditional rulers, but none was picked and installed.
The nature of that competition is what we have to deal with.
Türkiye attaches great importance to improving its relations with Nigeria, as the strongest nation in the African continent.
“It invariably means you are putting the wage bill on the incoming government and we cannot applaud him for that,” he said.
An aspirant for the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yusuf Gagdi, says he will stop the standing committees of the lower chamber from depending on federal agencies to fund their oversight activities.
He recalled how he first made the first declaration of his foreign accounts after his appointment into the board of the Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC).
It was only in May last year that Obi quit the PDP and joined the LP when he saw that he could not win the PDP primaries.
Mr Dambazau, who represents Takai/Sumaila Federal Constituency, told reporters on Thursday that the APC will continue to maintain its popularity in the North-west region, as the chairman of the Senate Committee on Appropriations, Barau Jibrin, who was elected for the third term to represent Kano North District is considering for the position of senate president.
“I see the confidence in him and he has proven it.”
A body was never found.
Mr Adejobi said he noticed that the motorcyclist was hit with a “heavy metal.”
You will have a living wage to have a decent life and provide for your families."
He holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in History (Education) from the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile Ife, in 1992, and a Master’s degree in Adult Education from Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba-Akoko, Ondo State, in 2019.
It was a delight for Akwa United as they returned to winning ways at home with a 3-1 win over floundering Kwara United at the Godswill Akpabio Stadium to secure the Group A second position with 26 points.
The governor said the new electric buses will reduce carbon emissions and also increase efficiency.
World Health Day: Why state governments must invest in health workers- Minister
Mr Buba granted them bail in the sum of N500 million each with sureties in like sum.
Mr Apapa explained that the leadership tussle was avoidable had Mr Obi respected the order of the Federal Capital Territory High Court, which barred Mr Abure and three others from parading themselves as party honchos.
“In the course of the struggle with the attackers, one Cpl.
“The North-central caucus has been consistent from the commencement of the politics that will lead to the emergence of the leadership of the National Assembly.
“The incoming administration of Tinubu must correct this anomaly by ensuring that the Southeast is given the opportunity to produce the next Senate President.
He argued further that while his evidence may not be 100 per cent reliable given the “effluxion of time” (approximately 3 years), he is a credible witness and is very clear that he did not know about the cigarettes.
“In 2020, 27 miners, including 17 said to be Chinese, were arrested in Osun state.
“The fact that most of those arrested tried and convicted so far for electoral offences are foot soldiers rather than the sponsors of electoral violence and other violations, many political elites have engaged in or supported violence in their bid to illegally shape the outcome of contests.
The appointment, by virtue of the letter dated 20 October 2021, issued to him by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, took effect from 21 September 2021, the date NNPC Limited was incorporated as a private company limited by the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC).
Isma’ila Yashua Maihanchi”
Cornerstone Insurance makes this week’s list for currently trading below its real value.
Nigeria police launch portal to curb car theft
The association is registered as a non-governmental organisation.
The Kaduna central zone still led in the number of abductees with 3,112 while Kaduna southern zone has 925 cases of abduction with the northern part of the state having 190.
I have said it before (that) I was governor of my state for eight years.
Miss Thomas further said she was dragged away from the scene by her colleagues.
It said the grievances prompting the strike by the unions are issues that should not lead to a strike.
“We believe strongly, Senator Akpabio and Senator Barau Jibril at the helm of affairs in the 10th assembly will further compliment the administration of Distinguished Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu and Senator Kashim Shettima in delivering good governance and democratic dividends, to all Nigerians.”
Mr Gagdi asked the president-elect to take a cue from the northern governors that fought for power shift to the south during the APC presidential primaries.
He noted that this year’s World Malaria Day has presented an opportunity to galvanise global efforts towards advocacy and sustained political will and investment that will be aimed at ending the scourge of the disease.
According to Nigeria’s electoral law, the REC, Hudu Ari, has no power to announce the winner of the election.
I truly cherish his God-fearing, dispassionate, moderate and pan-Nigerian approach to national issues and developments, in our multi-ethnic, multi-religious geo-polity.
“Cloudy atmosphere is expected over the inland states and coastal cities of the South with prospects of morning thunderstorms expected over Ogun, Cross River, Akwa Ibom, Rivers and Lagos State.
He also advised the state government to urgently apprise the public with the result of the findings and actions to be taken, to avert future building infractions in the state.
PREMIUM TIMES reported how a woman in a video clip accused Mr Akinosi of assaulting her after his vehicle hit a hawker.
The commission also submitted that the trial judge erred in law when he held and concluded that the testimonies of the prosecution witnesses supported the innocence of the respondents.
Also speaking, Fisayo Kayode, senior manager, Sahel Consulting Agriculture and Nutrition Limited, noted that strategic collaborations like this are part of the keys to addressing what he described as the urgent challenges in feed and food security in the country.
He added that it was important for them to drift from some old methods of farming as climate change had altered some variables, making such practices unproductive.
However, his victory is being challenged in court by about five parties and a former presidential candidate, Ambrose Owuru.
His opponents believe that Mr Tinubu violates the 1999 constitution by acquiring the “citizenship” of another country.
Overall, Mr Tinubu scored 37 per cent of votes in the elections.
He added, “Some of us don’t need Government funds or patronage to get by.
Responding, Mr Adejobi asked the state command spokesperson, Benjamin Hundeyin, to look into the matter.
“We advise them not to allow themselves to be used, again, as conduits for siphoning public funds to finance the forthcoming supplementary elections in some states and federal constituencies of the State; and We further advise them to operate strictly by all the relevant financial regulations and extant guidelines, the NNPP’s transition committee said.
The constabularies passed out from police colleges six months ago but they are yet to be paid despite being deployed to their places of assignment.
Mr Iwuanyanwu may become the first president-general of the group to emerge without an election.
Also speaking on the coalition, Aliyu Madaki, a member-elect on the platform of NNPP, said the lawmakers are not going to be a rubber stamp to any speaker, rather they are giving the APC the opportunity to decide the presiding officers based on international best practices.
Presidential spokesperson Femi Adesina disclosed the sack on Thursday.
He said those behind the plot were enemies of Nigeria.
The EFCC had yet to react to Mr Matawalle’s statement at the time of this report.
As they embark on their quest for a third U-17 AFCON championship and World Cup qualification, the Golden Eaglets are set to showcase their talent and determination on the world stage.
Governor Willie Obiano’s administration filed the suit.
US prosecutors said starting from January 2019, Mr Ponle and his co-schemers “were engaged in a business email compromise scheme targeting Victim Company B and other companies which resulted in a fraudulent wire of approximately $188,191.50 to a bank account.”
Ms Dorayi said there are various variants of the virus, hence critical stakeholders must sustain the observance of COVID-19 protocols in the country to conquer these variants.
The decision of the ruling party has been trailed by protests from other aspirants.
“The charge was read and interpreted to the defendant, to the satisfaction of the Court.
Easter: Kukah sets agenda for Tinubu, tasks judiciary on election petitions
“Election violence is inconsistent and incompatible with the principles of democracy, the rule of law, transparency and accountability for politicians to allegedly use violence to disrupt the electoral process.”
She noted that the 2023 Fiscal Framework and Appropriation Act as well as the Petroleum Industry Act (PIA) have made the provision that the government should exit fuel subsidies by June 2023.
The Nigerian government says it spends N1 million annually to cater for each inmate at the correctional facilities in the country.
He said he was only begging Mr Oyedepo to help him canvass votes.
“I, therefore, call on the incoming administration at the federal and state government levels, to initiate, reinvigorate, and focus on policies that promote inclusiveness, protect SMSEs, grow the middle-class and pririotise infrastructural development.
“You should not believe what you read from social media.
Senate Presidency: Orji Kalu writes APC NWC, Senators-elect
"More than ever, we must collaborate to ensure that no child or person dies of malaria...," he said.
The non-governmental organisation adds that, amid political threats to journalists and independent reporters, only 13 per cent of the world’s population have access to free media.
F. Boma Ayomide Alabi, SAN – ALTERNATE CHAIRMAN
Mr Amoo added that for farmers not to face loses, it is important for them to diversify their income by embracing fish farming and poultry production.
The endorsements have been ratified by the National Working Committee of the APC, triggering protests from some members of the party, particularly from the North-central zone, who faulted the zoning template.
Peter Obi who came third won in 11 states and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, which for the purpose of the election counts as a state.
“Above all, he supervised a free and fair election and he congratulated the winners including states where the ruling party did not win”, he said.
“Sadly, the gallant officer paid the supreme price, suffering a heavy blow to his skull, inflicted by one of the hoodlums while preventing them from dispossessing him of his firearm,” he said.
However, contrary to Mr Mohammed’s claim, this newspaper accurately interpreted what he said and reflected his justification for the claim.
Ekpenyong: The CAMA puts incorporated trustees at par with companies.
“He was saying that if our democracy is not rooted in our constitution and you then swear in a person who is being elected unconstitutionally then you infer ending democracy, I think a quite reasonable position.
Several government functionaries including the chairman of the EFCC, Abdulrasheed Bawa and the Director General of the Nigerian Intelligence Agency (NIA) Ahmed Abubakar, among others were at the event.
At the bottom of the list is Zamfara with 697,479 total votes cast; Delta with 671,737; Ogun – 663,968 votes, Nasarawa – 660,805; Akwa Ibom – 657,959, Taraba – 651,371, Borno – 636,246, and Gombe – 604,583.
Mr Tinubu, who became the first opposition party presidential candidate to win in Rivers State, a traditional PDP state since the return of democracy in 1999, acknowledged Mr Wike’s contributions to his victory.
The Second place prize of $350 went to Rice’s Team TestTSH for its novel design of an easy-to-read, low-cost thyroid hormone test for newborns.
However, some aspirants in the race kicked against the conduct of the exercise.
Some former senators have appealed to a former governor of Zamfara State, Abdulaziz Yari, and other aggrieved aspirants to step down for Godswill Akpabio in the race for the presidency of the Nigerian 10th Senate, which is scheduled to be inaugurated on 13 June.
— Hadi Abubakar Sirika (@hadisirika) May 7, 2023
It was no surprise that the Labour Movement added fillip, zest and energy to the struggle for independence by partnering with nationalists such as Nnamdi Azikwe, Herbert Macaulay, Ahmadu Bello, Obafemi Awolowo, Ernest Ikoli and Anthony Enahoro among others.
The APC governors equally asked the party to consider the contribution of each of the six zones during the presidential election in zoning the National Assembly offices.
He noted that the alliance can produce “an impossible upset” if all the lawmakers are committed to the alliance.
“And there’s so much that we need to put on track for things to work.
He pledged the NBA’s continued commitment to championing the continuous professional development of lawyers and ensuring that they are well-equipped to thrive both locally and in the global market.
This criticism has been levelled before, particularly at FOCAC, where Africa’s need to be more proactive and negotiate from a position of strength was noted.
The outgoing President had given his word that his legacy would hang ensuring that we have successful elections.
He added that approval would be obtained from the National Assembly before the money would be paid to Borno.
It has also provided free business registration to 250,000 MSMEs across the country.
• Sadiku Abubakar Ohere – Kogi Central
President Muhammadu Buhari at the Nigerian Army Trooping and Presentation of Colours Parade 2023 [PHOTO: Presidency]“The fighting power of our army was at low ebb as at May 2015,” he said.
She said: “We agreed to form an expanded committee that will be looking at the process for the removal of the subsidy, including determining the exact time as well as the measures that need to be taken to provide support to the poor and the vulnerable.”
Mr Abdullahi’s appointment was confirmed by the university’s governing council, during its 26th meeting held from 10 to 11 May, Jamilu Magaji, the university’s spokesperson, said in a statement.
Of the N14.488 billion Electronic Money Transfer Levy (EMTL), the federal government received N2.173 billion, the state governments received N7.244 billion and the local government councils received N5.071 billion.
Ms Alalade, who resides at No.
By the end of the day, it had become obvious that something was terribly amiss,” she said.
During the interview, Mr Yara explained that the helicopter video was taken in 2016 when Mr Tinubu was a guest of the ousted president during the independence anniversary celebration.
“For overriding public safety, there is need to shut it down immediately.
In the lead ruling that was delivered by Mohammed Lawal, the court said it has the powers to review its judgement and correct such “accidental slip or error” when it is brought to its attention.
President Buhari said he accepted all the complaints and criticisms in good stead, knowing it was part of the leadership he prayed and asked from God.
There are about 22 billion dollars in investments in free zones in Lagos and we believe that we can replicate what is happening in other states.
Explaining the rationale for the zoning arrangement, Mr Shettima said “What we are trying to avoid is a situation whereby the number one citizen, number two citizen, the number three citizen and the number four citizen are all of the same faith.
Well done management & staff of Abuja.
He also frowned at the planned demolition of offices of aviation agencies by the Ministry of Aviation, noting that the idea was flawed.
Even the government knows that an attempt to ignore the throne is a deliberate attempt to run down the economy of Oyo town.
President Buhari could do little in his first because of the rancorous relationship between the executive and the legislature.
Three of them are graduates of Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria, one from Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile Ife, and the other of the University of Calabar, Calabar.
“This intervention will go a long way to really provide for my children,” Mr Diya said.
In September, Mr Afonja submitted a list of 86 princes to the local government.
Irrespective of our geopolitical leaning, we as women have collectively given over 55 per cent of votes in the last election.
They were expected to arrive on Friday.
Posh Dubai assets Hushpuppi’s ally, Woodberry, is to forfeit to US govt
Mr Babafemi said the drugs were intercepted at the Skyway Aviation Handling Company Plc export shed of Murtala Mohammed International Airport, Lagos.
11:46am: Lateef Fagbemi (SAN) announces appearance for APC.
“Therefore, we will continue to amplify and celebrate the work of the global haemophilia community as we create awareness of the need for innovation in access to haemophilia treatments,” he said.
The APC therefore prayed the tribunal to dismiss or strike out the petitioners ‘ petition for lack of merit.
Mr Rabiu, the founder and executive chairman of BUA Group, handed over the reins to Mr Wigwe in a ceremony held Wednesday (today), marking a new chapter in the Council’s history.
The AGF, Mr Malami, said this at the training of police prosecutors on criminal justice law in Abuja.
The doctors had on Saturday requested tangible steps on the “upward review” of CONMESS and payment of all salary arrears owed its members from 2014.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Supreme Court in Abuja on Tuesday upheld the Court of Appeal’s ruling of March 24, declaring Mr Adeleke as the rightful governor of Osun.
Are you backed by any of the groups?
10th National Assembly: APC retains majority in Senate with 59 senators-elect as PDP trails with 36 (FULL LIST)
Proposed new structure for police barracks in Lagos
As speaker of the House, he promised to promote transparency and accountability in its operations, noting that the citizens have a right to know what is happening in their government.
The dilemma has sharply shot the brewer’s outstanding payable for business-critical imports upward, with overdue debt to Ibecor, its overseas buying agent, now as high as €110 million.
However, he said the hawker later apologised for the damage.
“The PDP calls on the APC and its leaders to immediately come clean and publicly address Nigerians and the world on these disturbing allegations and revelations which are already in the public domain.”
“After a fruitful and eventful life of God’s abundant mercies and grace, our mother, grandmother and great grandmother, Dame Dorothy Nsonma Ihedioha (Nee Okereke) (has) gloriously transited to eternity,” he wrote.
In the same year, India accounted for 17 per cent of global maternal, and neonatal deaths and stillbirths, while Nigeria accounts for 12 per cent.
The students’ body narrated that the Kaduna State Government had in 2015 requested the federal education ministry to cede parts of the school’s land to it for use.
Africa, like that widow, appears to have a prowess that killing of her prime children and husband requires.
Those who position themselves at night with stones to guard the entrance of the tomb will find themselves confounded at dawn by an empty tomb.
Each of us should be courageous to take a stand.
There must have been a conversation.
“Igbos should not spend time fighting themselves but rather forge a common front for their future in Nigeria.”
“When the new governor came, he said I should hold on, that there are a series of committees to verify those things, which eventually ended and I was given papers of the apartment,” Mr Ugwuoke narrated.
He added that the lawmakers had done their best to ensure that the party remained in power and deserved to be carried along in its decisions.
The office controversially withdrew the corruption charges against a former Gombe State governor, Danjuma Goje, in 2019, based on what was widely believed to be political considerations.
The Nerazzurri had a huge boost going into the second leg after their 2-0 first leg victory last week.
Curiously, section 851 of CAMA went to the extent of establishing an Administrative Proceedings Committee who are to hear and determine matters that might emanate from the new legislation.
He became a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) in 1980.
The party argued that Obi was not a member of LP at the time of his alleged sponsorship.
Mr Celades noted that only 70 per cent of pregnant women currently have access to antenatal care, with just 60 per cent receiving complete antenatal checkups.
It is with great concern, and indeed, with a huge burden that I read in the news of the purported zoning arrangement released by the National Working Committee of our Party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) as regards the leadership positions in the yet-to-be inaugurated National Assembly.
He boasted of his efforts of tackling corruption in “overriding public interest.”
Asked about his plans for the country, he said he had been consulting and planning with a view to putting together a strong team so he could hit the ground running once he assumes office on May 29.
Senate resolution, followed a motion by Adamu Aliero (PDP- Kebbi), alleging unauthorised spending by NDDC on its 2021, 2022 and 2023 budget estimates.
The National President of the Onion Farmers Association of Nigeria, Aliyu Maitasamu, said over 2 million metric tonnes of onion is produced annually in Nigeria with Sokoto State producing 40 per cent of the product.
“As for the radar, its modern design puts it at the forefront of this type of radar.
It predicted a sunny atmosphere with few patches of clouds over the northern region with prospects of thunderstorms over parts of Taraba and Kaduna States later in the day.
Although elections were not held in Bayelsa and Edo states in March, the two states are both controlled by the PDP.
The calculation included a 5 per cent reduction for cooperation.
The week 13 report, spanning 27 March to 2 April also revealed that the number of new confirmed cases decreased from 39 infections in week 12 of 2023 to 23, while the number of fatalities increased from two to four.
The IPOB leader appealed against Ms Nyako’s ruling at the Court of Appeal.
“It is also heart-warming that borders are now open in Egypt.
“However, the Magistrate Court did not (take) defendant’s plea because the case is triable by the High Court,” Ms Ikeanyiownu said.
The fellows selected will spend six months under the mentorship of Stella Din-Jacob, Rommy Mom, Abiola Akiyode-Afolabi and Motunrayo Alaka, working on story ideas and leadership projects after which they will be inaugurated as fellows of the Reports Women FRLP Programme.
The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has arraigned the Speaker of Ondo State House of Assembly, Bamidele Oleyelogun, at an Akure High Court over alleged theft of N2.4 million.
When PREMIUM TIMES contacted the Chief Press Secretary to Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State, Ibrahim Musa, he declined to comment on the matter.
Members of the Ozalla Community came out in their number, adorned in black and carrying various placards on Wednesday in Enugu, to protest the “one murder too many.”
He said “in 2007, he lost the presidential election to the late President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua.”
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the lone crash involved a Toyota Hiace bus conveying 18 persons, including the driver.
Let Garba Shehu and occupants of the current Presidential Villa be informed that the ongoing pogrom in Benue State is a designed plot by the Fulani against the Benue people to disposses them of their lands and these atrocities are well documented.
The arrest of the corps member followed a joint operation by police operatives from Benin Republic and Nigeria.
He noted that scientific evidence supports the effectiveness of interventions provided by skilled health workers in reducing maternal and newborn mortality.
The police spokesperson in the state, Onome Onovwakpoyey, disclosed this in a statement on Tuesday.
To expect smooth legislative business from that Assembly may be farfetched.
The Court of Appeal also struck out counts five and six and ordered Mr Yakubu to defend himself on counts three and four.
Over the years, the ‘Fuji puff daddy’ has been at the forefront of featuring and being featured by different artistes.
Reps probe “payment” of N20 billion to “ghost” consultants
Osita Izunaso, the senator-elect for Imo West Senatorial District, on Tuesday, met with President Muhammadu Buhari and called for the zoning of the Senate Presidency to the South-east.
“The primary goal for the incoming government should be to unite the nation”.
Search trends information is gleaned from data collated by Google based on what Nigerians have been searching for and asking Google.
The police reveal the faces and names of the officers for the first time since the incident occurred.
Held on 25th February, these pivotal elections determined the president, vice president, Senate and House of Representatives members, and state governors in 31 of 36 Nigerian states.
Mr Ortom, a member of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), stated this in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Nathaniel Ikyur, on Thursday, in Makurdi, the state capital.
“Preliminary investigation revealed that the suspects are responsible for most motorcycle snatching and theft in Nasarawa LGA and its environs.
How to check my polling unit?
The President stated that he decided to retire to Daura, which was far away from Abuja in order to get some respite, after years of work.
“They were afraid of leaving me there with him.”
Besides the aforementioned divisions in the legislature, there will also be governors from five different parties for the first time since the 1979 – 1983 term.
With eight political parties represented in the House of Representatives and seven political parties represented in the Senate, the incoming National Assembly will be one of the most diverse in the Fourth Republic.
The APC acting chairman said he saw no reason Governor Adeleke should be struggling to rubbish the legacy of his predecessor simply because they share different political ideals.
He is said to be worth $6.5 billion, thus becoming the 6th ranked African billionaire who is now ahead of Mr Adenuga.
“We wish to appeal to Mr President to assent to the bill on the abolition of HND, a first-degree signed dichotomy that is now before him.
Binani, the candidate of Nigeria's ruling party, All Progressives Congress (APC) seeks to become the first woman to be elected state governor in Nigeria.
Child trafficking offenders, on conviction, face a minimum of 5 years imprisonment and a fine of N500,000 or above, depending on the purpose of the trafficking, among others.
Supplementary Polls: INEC denies allegations of partisanship in Adamawa
He also called for the inclusion of ethics and forensic accounting in the curricula of tertiary educational institutions, saying it would both ensure effective professional training and create a stronger awareness of its value to “boost societal moral values.”
We give all the glory to God Almighty,” he said.
President Muhammadu Buhari has said the fighting power of the Nigerian Army increased significantly under his administration making it fourth in ranking among African militaries as against seventh in 2015.
President Muhammadu Buhari at the Nigerian Army Trooping and Presentation of Colours Parade 2023 [PHOTO: Presidency]Mr Buhari said the army had restructured the conduct of its operations to meet current realities, saying the quantum of platforms induced into the army since 2015 had enabled troops to take the battle to the terrorists and criminals, particularly in the North-east.
I am one of the most competent, I am going to be that winner, irrespective of the fact that I might not have that many dollars.
A 2017 survey by the Nigerian Polling Organisation (NOIPolls) in partnership with Nigeria Health Watch, revealed that about 88 per cent of medical doctors in Nigeria were seeking work opportunities abroad at the time.
According to the United States Agency International Development, concessional loans, or soft loans, have more generous terms than market loans.
The bulk of what Sudan flaunts today is old glory, education inclusive.
Within this period of his service in the Nigerian Parliament, he has served as Deputy Senate President of the Senate and has headed so many Committees in various capacities and brought to bear his broad-based experience in legal practice and public administration.
The Coroner inquest set up to investigate the circumstances surrounding the death of Whitney Adeniran, a 12-year-old student of Chrisland School, Lagos, has granted the school’s request to access samples obtained from the deceased for an independent autopsy.
“The defendant is hereby remanded for 48 hours in police custody to allow the police to conclude their investigation.”
Mr Ngige also said the federal government as the Executive arm of government cannot intervene in the bill at the National Assembly to bond doctors for five years, as it is a private member’s bill.
• Elisha Cliff Ishaku Adamawa North
The committee also summoned the Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, representatives of the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited, Nigerian Upstream Regulatory Commission, Nigeria Extractive Industry Transparency Index (NEITI), and oil and gas companies.
The former president’s son, who is a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) also supported the candidature of Abbas Tajudeen as the next Speaker of the House of Representatives.
The extradition case is before the Federal High Court in Abuja, according to the statement by the commission’s spokesperson, Wilson Uwujaren.
May his soul rest in peace.
He said the state NLC has been “working closely” with the state government to ensure the affected workers are paid.
Don’t forget; the DE registration is not a high-tech registration; we usually have just about 100,000 and sometimes 200,000 candidates registering for the whole year.
Some students of Ladoke Akintola University of Technology (LAUTECH), Ogbomoso, have won a $500 prize for the Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Award at the 13th annual Global Health Technologies competition organised by the Rice University, Houston, Texas.
Out of the 1,052 people killed, Mr Aruwan said 947 were men, 82 were women while 23 were minors.
“The recall followed the analysis of the Food and Drug Agency (FDA) of the United States of America, an FDA, which found the PrimeZen capsules to contain undeclared tadalafil and sildenafil.
President Muhammadu Buhari says the future of democracy as a system of government is bright, adding that as he prepares to leave office in a little over a month, he feels satisfied and duly assured that Nigerians will defend the system against all threats.
*Victim Company C: $350,000.00
“Needless to say, the Minister confirmed that the data has no verifiable basis.
Who is the President of Nigeria?
In resolving our problems, the easy part is to seek out the scapegoats.
The Federal High Court in Lagos, on Wednesday, struck out an interim order of forfeiture, seeking to forfeit properties linked to Kogi State governor, Yahaya Bello.
Woodberry, according to the plea agreement, set up the fraudulent bank account with which he received proceeds of the fraud nine days before he requested payment through Victim Company B’s compromised email account on 16 January 2019.
Mr Conde, while answering a question on his relationship with Mr Tinubu, said: “Tinubu is the biggest pan-Africanist I have seen.
Mr Tinubu also urged the supporters of his party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), to come out to vote.
He added that the committee consequently confirmed Lagos PDP Vice-Chairman (West Senatorial District), Sunday Olaifa, as acting chairman, pending the outcome of court cases.
Mr Mamman was sacked alongside then Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mohammed Sabo Nanono, in what the presidency described as a fallout of the president’s move to “reinvigorate this cabinet in a manner that will deepen its capacity to consolidate legacy achievements.”
But unlike Mr Owuru’s suit, the rest of the legal actions instituted after the 25 February presidential election were filed at the Presidential Election Petition Court in Abuja.
Responding, the prosecution counsel, S. I. Sulaiman, informed the court that the prosecution had filed a counter -affidavit and a written address.
Inter will be patiently waiting to see whether they would be facing Real Madrid or Manchester City in this year’s final.
They were harassing and beating my children telling them to pack their things.
According to him, “paying N30,000 national minimum wage to Nigerian workers is subjecting them to living in denial.
“This particular incident, like similar others, reinforces the government’s repeated calls for responsible behaviour on the part of all stakeholders in the built environment,” he said.
“That’s now done and dusted.
“I cannot remember as an APC member where Mr President-elect was endorsed as a consensus candidate for our party, no.
“I wish Baba Adebanjo good health, renewed strength and, above all, continued grace of God.”
The speaker said this has become necessary due to the lapses observed in the current evacuation operations as seen in the overlapping roles of the Ministries of Foreign Affairs; Humanitarian, Disaster Management and Social Development; the Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NiDCOM); and the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA).
The immediate past president-general of the Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Mr Obiozor, hailed from Awo-Omamma in Oru East Local Government Area of Imo State.
“He thus stands removed as the chairman of the party and has no legal standing to act in that capacity,” he said.
“Once again, please accept our deepest apology and pledge to prevent a recurrence of such in the future.
“For Christ sake, Dino does not have what it takes to be a governor at all.
When I heard that the police were on the lookout for me, a lawyer told me to get N10 million to set myself free, but I told him I could not raise the money, but I was able to raise N1 million.
In his opening remark, Felix Odimegwu, the state Commissioner for Environment, appreciated stakeholders who responded to the call for a roundtable on a clean, green and sustainable environment for Anambra.
Russia was expelled from the Council of Europe because of its war against Ukraine and is, thus, no longer a member of the European Convention on Human Rights, which the ECHR ensures is observed.
NAN reports that only members who were physically present and participated in the purported impeachment were suspended.
He said the court had contributed in no small measure to justice delivery through its several judgments and decisions.
Mr Oyewo told Premium Times that DILPAN is designed to be installed on existing pit latrines.
In the motion dated November 9, 2021 by its lawyer, Noah Ajare, the group sought a declaration that the sanctions procedure applied by the NBC in imposing N500,00Q fines on each of the 45 broadcast stations on March 1, 2019 was a violation of the rules of natural justice.
The NCRIB president said if these insurance policies have been in place, the risk of total loss incurred by the owners of the collapsed buildings would have been greatly reduced.
Mr Yunusa-Ari had declared Binani as winner midway into the collation.
In the lunar Muslim calendar, each month begins with the sighting of the new moon.
“One person identified as the police officer, who was on duty, got injured and was also taken to the hospital by the FRSC rescue team, but he later died,”
“It is an act of blackmail and deceit by desperate individuals.
The repayment will be made in installments, with payments due on January 15 and July 15 each year.
And what it goes to say is that we have a round peg which befits a round hole.
“Oh my sister, should the tide swing your side and we will give you our support.” All the camps, all the other contestants, we will walk with you, you are the only woman in the ring.
He said the visit was also to strengthen the ties with the Ooni as the source of the Yoruba and major stakeholder in the history of Nigeria, especially in the areas of security.
“We tried to pay outstanding salaries.
The national body of PASAN, in a letter dated May 9 and signed by its Secretary-General, Awobifa Hammed, also demanded full compliance with the provisions of the Ogun State House of Assembly Service Commission Law, 2018 and Statutory Office (State Emolument) Amendment 2018.
May God bless Nigeria.
They are the Incumbent Deputy Speaker, Idris Wase (Plateau), Yusuf Gagdi (Plateau), Sada Soli (Katsina), Muktar Betara (Borno), Tunji Olawuyi (Kwara), Abubakar Makki (Jigawa), Aminu Jaji (APC, Zamfara), Ben Kalu (Abia), Ado Doguwa (Kano) and Miriam Onuoha (Imo).
But none lit the world, with Glo(w)
How can we climb out of this valley of dry bones?
The state Chairman of NLC in the state, Murtala Usman, recalled that the day was created to honour those who lost their lives at the Haymarket Square in Chicago, United States of America, on May 4, 1886.
Spoilt the chairs,” the voice added.
The First Lady, Aisha Buhari, has expressed gratitude to Nigerian women, members of the diplomatic community and partners for support and cooperation she received as a mother of the nation.
Mr Joseph, a director of the Legal and Prosecution Department of the NDLEA, had applied for the protection of the next witness listed to give evidence in the trial.
“The country’s oil wealth ought to be used solely for the benefit f the Nigerian people, and for the sake of the present and future generations.
The ability of the House of Representatives to effectively meet those expectations depends on the quality, capacity and dedication of the members who serve in the parliament.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Justice Oyindamola Ogala held that the prosecution proved the one-count charge of grievous harm against Mr Agu.
“Assault: Seun Kuti under interrogation at the State CID Panti,” he said.
Various research also shows that the effectiveness of GSK’s vaccine is approximately 60 per cent, and significantly wanes over time, even with a booster dose.
IPI and IMS are proud to announce Mexican investigative journalist Carmen Aristegui as the recipient of the 2023 World Press Freedom Hero award.
Jack Teixeira of North Dighton, Massachusetts, who was arrested by heavily armed FBI agents at his home on Thursday, made his initial appearance in a crowded federal court wearing a brown khaki jumpsuit.
Unidentified assailants have killed 40 people and wounded 33 others in an attack on the army and volunteer defence forces in northern Burkina Faso, the government said in a statement.
Last month India’s Supreme Court declined to hear Mr Ahmed’s petition in which he alleged there was a threat to his life from the police.
‘‘The Nigeria Agenda 2050 is formulated against the backdrop of subsisting economic and social challenges facing the country, including low, fragile and non-inclusive growth, insecurity, high population growth rate, limited concentric economic diversification and low productivity.
Our party blended confidence with caution, we worked hard and won.
The committee which has not been constituted was mandated to report back to the House in four weeks.
The loan must be repaid in U.S. dollars, the agreement showed.
A consensus candidate can be picked but we must sit and say this is the person we have picked to lead us.
“Consequently, the entire proceedings of the Jigawa State High Court in suit No.
He added that while waiting on the government to provide data that might be delayed, media organisations can also work with minority groups to create alternatives.
Mr Akpata appointed 300 members spread across the same number of committees in February 2021.
However, the decision has been criticised by some lawmakers and members of the party for various reasons including the fact that the North-central was excluded from the arrangement.
The anti-graft agency also sought explanation from the government on alleged cases of abuse of office and misappropriation of funds.
Mr Kalu, currently the Senate chief whip, before the closed door meeting, expressed gratitude to God for Mr Tinubu’s successful vacation and safe return to Nigeria.
Mr Ehanire, while speaking at a press briefing to commemorate the 2023 World Health Day (WHD) in Abuja on Thursday, said the shortage of health workers is a barrier to the country’s vision of achieving UHC.
“It is unimaginable that someone who did not participate or vote in an election would make categorical statements about an election she did not witness,” Mr Oke said.
The properties were said to have been misappropriated by the Kano State Pension Fund Trustees during Mr Kwankwaso’s administration in 2015.
Global partnerships saved 11.7m people from Malaria deaths – Dangote
He said the disciplinary measures under the passport reform were part of the three-point agenda of the present Comptroller General (CG), NIS, Isah Jere when he came on board.
In a 2022 interview with PREMIUM TIMES, K1 said that many Nigerian musicians would instead take to Afropop, afrobeats or pop music these days than Fuji music, a trend he described as worrisome.
“We implemented a marginal field bid round and saw to the conclusion of the process which resulted in the award of Petroleum Prospecting Licences (PPLs) to 161 successful firms with the federal government raking in about N200 billion as well as $7 million from the process,” he said.
Its PE ratio currently stands at 4.7x, while its EPS is N0.12.
CP10, Sector Centre B Layout, Kuje, Abuja; Plot MF62 Outer Northern Expressway Cadastral Zone, Abuja; Plot No.
The South-west, with about 4.25 million votes, placed third, while the North-east followed with about 3.4 million votes.
“The act has added some new innovations such as the establishment of a sex offender registry in the federal capital territory.
The ongoing fights have led to the destruction of buildings and facilities in the already torn country, including members of the diplomatic community.
“This time around, I was there on Thursday, and we spoke in the morning.
He also said that there was no evidence that any form of orderly trial took place.
Mr Yari advised the senators-elect to ensure they facilitate developments to their constituents while in the senate.
LP has the third highest number of members-elect of the House with a total of 36 out of 360.
According to him, the implications for the sector and the economy include dop in sales for investors in the sector, a negative effect on tax revenue from the sector, and loss of direct and indirect jobs which could be in a couple of millions.
According to him, the organisation marked the 75th anniversary of the day that constitution came into force.
It seems more likely that the summit will be held virtually or elsewhere.
It noted that persisting disruptions are due to both demand- and supply-side factors, including low levels of healthcare-seeking in communities, and limited availability of health workers and other healthcare resources.
She said that effort is further echoed in this year’s theme.
The vice president was received at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport by top Kenyan government officials and the Nigerian High Commissioner to Kenya, Yusuf Yunusa, alongside other government functionaries.
These are lands taken over by land grabbers.”
“You must therefore not disappoint them in any way because your actions, inactions, omissions, and commissions may affect them directly or indirectly,” he noted.
The state Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development, Lola Fagbemi, stated this on Monday in Akure.
The President will be accompanied by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama, Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, the National Security Adviser (NSA), Babagana Monguno, the Director General, National Intelligence Agency (NIA), Ahmed Abubakar, the Chairperson/Chief Executive Officer of Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, Abike Dabiri-Erewa and other senior government officials.
It is also structured to provide ICT support and innovations for farmers,” he further explained.
This also means the APC candidate got 40 per cent of the votes in the North-west.
”Braimah revealed that an epidemic waiting to happen promptly and decisively tackled is economically beneficial than allowing trading to go on as usual in a filthy market environment.
“An organisation that uses good governance is one that always, in words and action, demonstrates accountability, leadership, integrity, stewardship and transparency,” he said.
The International Press Institute (IPI) in Nigeria has called on the president-elect, Bola Tinubu, to be committed to creating a better operating environment for press freedom, journalists and media organisations, as he assumes office as Nigeria’s next president on 29 May.
Alleged N1.1bn Fraud: EFCC urges court not to excuse convicted ex-NIMASA official from trial
“Instead of getting applause and accolades, sometimes I receive avalanche of criticisms, and the media was awashed with negative stories about me and the Federal Ministry of Justice.
When documentation isn’t supplied or available, we discount fortunes,” Forbes noted.
“We look forward to the prompt prosecution of Kuti to act as a deterrent to others,’’ Arase was quoted in the statement issued by PSC’s spokesman,” Ikechukwu Ani.
As stated in the memo, the university management also noted that vehicles with no registration numbers are no longer allowed on the campus.
It is perhaps possible that the ruling party will wait for the outcome of the 15 April supplementary elections for taking a decision on zoning.
She noted that the reason for writing this book was to preserve history and speak the truth because she is not one to be “cowered by the authority or people in the public sector".
Deputy Speaker Idris Wase (APC, Plateau) also visited Governor Nyesom Wike in Rivers State to draw support for his aspiration.
Lack of accountability for crimes against children emboldens impunity, Amnesty International says of the Chibok girls kidnap.
“In the past few years, cases of media and journalists’ harassment have been rampant,” IPI Nigeria stated in a statement commemorating the 2023 World Press Freedom on Wednesday.
“We challenge the over ‘10,000’ farmers to produce evidence of payments to the government since they were registered,” she said.
The Committee to Protect Journalists, a non-profit organisation that focuses on promoting press freedom worldwide, has condemned the trial and conviction of two Nigerian journalists for defamation.
A statement on Friday in Abuja by Femi Adesina, the president’s spokesperson, said the summit was part of the major events leading to the coronation of His Majesty, King Charles III as King of the United Kingdom and Leader of the Commonwealth.
He was also director of news at Television Continental, a former provost of the Nigerian Institute of Journalism and currently a lawyer at Jiti Ogunye Chambers in Lagos.
Mr Usman-Ododo defeated six other contestants to pick the ticket.
The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has congratulated Governor Ademola Adeleke of Osun State after the Supreme Court on Tuesday upheld his victory in the July 16, 2022 governorship poll.
Reps probe NCC over “poor” utilisation of USP fund
The statement said “both leaders thanked God Almighty for seeing this day and prayed for the stability and the wellbeing of the nation.”
The examination body had lamented the use of fake A’ level results by direct entry candidates.
In a statement on Tuesday, Gilbert Agbo, the chairperson of the committee, faulted the planned demolition, stressing that the ownership of the properties was still a subject of different litigations.
The management of FrieslandCampina WAMCO Nigeria Plc, makers of Peak Milk, on Tuesday apologised to the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) over its controversial Good Friday advert.
In 2013 and 2015, he said, colleagues forged invoices to skirt anti-money laundering measures at a Cypriot bank and get it to process $150,000 in transfers from P&ID and an ICIL group company to a P&ID representative in Nigeria, Adetunji Adebayo — money that Nigeria said was to feed a slush fund for bribes Adebayo paid on P&ID’s behalf.
“Once access to this email account (“Victim Company B Email Account”) had been accomplished, the co-schemers changed certain security settings in the email account to hide their activity from the actual email account user,” prosecutors said in the plea agreement signed by Woodberry.
The Director, Defence Media Operations, Musa Danmadami, a major-general, said this at the bi-weekly news conference on the operations of the armed forces, on Thursday, in Abuja.
We will continue to further deepen collaboration amongst all the relevant stakeholders; government security agencies, host communities and others to enhance our energy security.
“If the government submits the handover notes now, what becomes of the remaining weeks to 29 May,” Mr Akase wondered.
He added that the global body is particularly concerned about African countries dealing with Mpox long before the worldwide outbreak began and could continue to deal with it for some time.
The incessant industrial actions in government-owned universities in Nigeria has over the years created a market for the private universities, which is getting more investments despite reservations by the academic staff unions in the public universities.
“With this same spirit of fairness, we also affirm our solid support that the position of Deputy President of the 10th Senate is conceded to Distinguished Senator Barau I. Jubrin, CON, representing Kano North Senatorial Zone, Kano State.
The upcoming Russia-Africa Summit in July is the latest in a long list of gatherings by global powers aimed at ‘winning friends and influencing people’ across Africa.
“Some political appointees and elected persons when they behave you will know clearly that they are high on drugs."
the INEC and the APC are also expected to reply Atiku’s petition and the rest of the petitions filed at the Presidential Election Petition Court.
In a speech, the State Chairman of the Nigeria Labour Congress, Pascal Nweke, described the theme of the event as apt, adding that it clearly states the desires of the average worker.
Popular Nigerian Tiktoker, Jerry Chuks, better known as SoftMadeit, surprised the crowd as he came out to break the dance floor with his killer Dance mover.
Osun State Amotekun Commander, Bashir Adewinmbi, disclosed this on Wednesday.
APC supporters, their party having won the latter election, will be hoping to repeat the feat by going out en masse to vote for their candidates in the Senate and House of Representatives rerun.
Officers of the Imota Police Division in Ikorodu were on patrol duty when they came under the attack at Emuren Junction, on Itokin Road in the area.
"Taking this opportunity, I invite you to pay an official visit to Ukraine at a time convenient for you," Mr Zelensky.
On another ground, the prosecution said the Appeal Court was wrong to have relied “heavily” on international legal instruments and cases decided “from foreign jurisdictions” in arriving at its decision freeing Mr Kanu.
But nearly every aspect of the 15 areas targeted is being implemented in one way or the other,” he said.
The police spokesperson in Anambra State, Tochukwu Ikenga, confirmed the incident on Friday during a press conference on behalf of the Commissioner of Police in the state, Echeng Echeng.
“We are committed to providing our full support to those impacted.
I want to ask questions, and he must answer me, or we go to court’’.
“Apart from the North and the South, Nigerians are divided into two religions, we have Muslims and Christians.
As a result, the government agency has been in some form of rapid response with its enforcement activities across the country regardless of some daunting recovery challenges posed by obligors.
Its petition filed on 19 March was anchored on, among other grounds, hat Mr Tinubu “corruptly induced” electoral officers at local government and state collation centres in “Kano, Kaduna, Imo, Rivers, Kebbi, Oyo, Ogun, Ekiti, Osun, Kogi and Kwara states” with a view to alter the presidential election results in his favour.
It was after few weeks UK went into national lockdown due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
The Presidential Election Petition Court on Monday adjourned Peter Obi’s petition challenging the victory of Bola Tinubu in the 25 February poll.
The Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP), the Federal Government’s medium-term Economic Plan, launched by President Buhari in April 2017, successfully ushered in a macroeconomic environment and helped the country to achieve food security.
“Whereas, by the mandatory provisions of Section 77 (1) (2) and (3) of the Electoral Act 2022, a political party shall maintain a register and shall make such register available to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) not later than 30 days before the date fixed for the party primaries, congresses and convention.
“But it (Nigeria) risks redirecting resources away from more sustainable infrastructure, delaying the clean energy transition, and deepening dependence on fossil fuels, which could result in stranded assets and debt that will be difficult to repay as demand and prices fluctuate,” it added.
The NHRC says Nigerian journalists deserve the support of all in a statement to commemorate the 2023 World Press Freedom Day.
“As the president is about to complete his second four-year term in a matter of weeks, the Chief Imam, Sheikh Abdulwahab Sulaiman, turned the event into a valedictory ceremony,’’ Buhari’s media aide, Garba Shehu, stated.
“It is unconstitutional so anything unconstitutional as far as I am concerned is not applicable,” he said.
As empowered by the Alaafin Chieftaincy Declaration of 1961, Oyomesi took the vote and submitted the name of the candidate to the state government in October.
The governors under the umbrella of Progressive Governors Forum (PGF), in a memo exclusively obtained by PREMIUM TIMES, had recommended the zoning of the Senate President to either the South-east or the South-south regions and the Speaker of the House of Representatives to either the North-west or the North-central regions while the deputy speakership should be zoned to South-easn or South-south.
The Labour Party is very worried and disturbed with the statement from the office of the President wherein he said that the opposition parties lost the 2023 presidential election because of their “overconfidence, complacency and bad tactical moves, and which he claimed created more problems for them.
When contacted on Wednesday, Onyebuchi Ememanka, the spokesperson to Governor Ikpeazu, denied the allegations.
When CPJ contacted Malami for comment via messaging app, he asked to see CPJ’s evidence on journalists’ killings.
I, therefore, hereby plead with the abductors not to harm Mr Wali, SAN and make a passionate appeal for his release to his family.
Commenting on the delivery, Mr Herrero said the export highlights the work of the Argentine Technology and Science agency, complying with the highest international standards for sensitive technology exports.
No date has been fixed for hearing of the application.
Mr Abah said he met a repair technician, Godwin, who, within just 10 minutes, was able to fix the MacBook Pro for “a mere N10,000”, about $22.
Mr Keyamo’s lawyer, O. C. Uju, urged the court to dismiss the objections raised by the defendants and proceed to hear the case on merit.
The fellowships provide relief from teaching and administrative duties while researchers pursue “original, transformational and future-focused knowledge and technology” aimed at “challenging the way we live.”
WHO reiterated that the “sudden and unexpected” appearance of Monkeypox in these countries suggests that it may have gone undetected for some time.
The police spokesperson said the Force had not received any letter from INEC demanding the investigation and prosecution of Mr Ari.
He said that the outcome from the committee would further strengthen the government to come up with a robust work plan that could be enforced going forward.
He said the petitioners, who had yet to respond to some of his filings, said they needed up to Friday to do so
In the North-central, Mr Danmadami, a major general, said troops of Operation Safe Haven and other operations conducted operational activities at different locations and villages in Benue, Nasarawa, Plateau, Niger States as well as FCT during the period.
“The President would rather lose his state and many of his party’s strongholds than tamper with the fidelity of the election, and that is why he provided a level-playing field for all parties,” he said.
African states would no doubt rather be kingmakers than be caught in another proxy war.
He got the crowd vibing to ‘Ada’, released in 2018.
James Odaudu, Special Adviser to Mr Sirika on Public Affairs, did not respond to PREMIUM TIMES’ request seeking procurement details of the firefighter trucks.
Messrs Olupona and Pate were among the 269 outstanding individuals recently announced as new Fellows of the prestigious Academy.
House Speaker: Gagdi unveils manifesto, promises to end “illegal” funding of Reps committees
Similarly, Yomi Aliyu, lawyer to Kabiru Masari who was Mr Tinubu’s running mate, said his client filed responses to the pre-hearing questions on 3 May.
“Of course we are aware that there are agitations from various geo- political zones on the positions of Senate President, Deputy Senate President, Speaker and Deputy Speaker.
Don’t forget, this is a joint effort.
Through the solar and battery storage hybrid system, Nigerian Breweries expects to pare down carbon emissions by 100,000 tonnes as long as the plants exist in a push to dilute its energy mix further and boost its climate credentials.
They argued that the alleged unlawful selection of Mr Usman-Ododo contravened Section 177 of the Nigerian constitution and Section 29 and 84 of the Electoral Act as well as Article 20 APC’s constitution.
In a 15-second clip posted on Twitter, some gun-wielding police officers were seen beating up the man.
Google on Tuesday revealed the top searches that captured the interest of Nigerians in the first three months of the year.
Once you are done, it gives the option to click on save to share it with your friends.
The Court of Appeal in Kano has reserved judgment in the appeal filed by the New Nigeria Peoples Party and its candidate, Salisu Yushau, against the re-election of Alhassan Doguwa of the All Progressive Congress (APC).
To attempt to navigate one’s way, however gingerly, along a mat spread across the infernal abyss, is an invitation to moral suicide.
The NBA President was optimistic that Mr Wali would be released unhurt.
“On April 18th, the company hastily announced that a board meeting initially scheduled to be held on May 4th, 2023, had taken place on April 17th, 2023.
The crisis between the Sudanese armed forces and formerly allied Rapid Support Forces (RSF) paramilitaries emerged as the country appeared to be returning to the path towards democratic transition.
Murray claimed he didn’t know how he got them.
Godswill Akpabio, a former minister of Niger Delta Affairs and a senator-elect from Akwa Ibom State, has described President Muhammadu Buhari as the “father of the nation”.
In a statement personally signed by the Commissioner for Health, Akin Abayomi, a professor, a copy of which was made available to PREMIUM TIMES on Saturday, the government alleged that the patient moved from Ondo State to Lagos without waiting for the result of the Lassa fever test run in Ondo State.
The stage play was showcased earlier in January 2023 as part of activities to commemorate the “UNILAG @ 60” convocation ceremonies.
‘‘You will recall that in March 2020, I approved the development of successor Plans to both Nigeria Vision 20:2020 and the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP), 2017-2020.
Fighting broke out in Sudan about a week ago between the north-eastern African country’s two most powerful generals and their respective military units.
Mr Iroju had written the petition to the EFCC in 2021, alleging that Mr Oleyelogun and some members and officials of the Assembly collected N2.4 million for a seminar in Lagos which they did not attend.
The party recently screened nine aspirants for the exercise.
Also speaking on the motion, Nicholas Ossai (PDP, Delta) stated that the House could not be debating a matter of speculation.
Academico Correspondiente, Academica Chilena De Ciecias Sociales Politicas Y Morales – November 2000
The programme brought together professionals in soap making and other cleaning products; cooking and baking, to empower women in the community and ensure they contribute positively to society.
“The panel also invited senior and mid-level staff loyal to the ES (Ms Umar) to appear on 21 March 2023 and NONE of them appeared before the committee despite receiving the invites,” a director at NIPC, who declined to be described by name over the fear of victimisation, told PREMIUM TIMES.
“INEC, suspecting cyberattack, withheld the uploading of the results in order to preserve the integrity of the data,” he said.
He told the court that he had divorced the complainant.
In an apology letter addressed to the CAN President, Daniel Okoh, dated 10 April, the company’s Corporate Affairs Executive Director, Ore Famurewa, said the post was not intended to make light of the significance of the season nor to inordinately exploit the unmatched sacrifice of Jesus Christ.
President Buhari highlighted the strengths of democracy as a system of government, particularly in providing opportunity to participate, and fostering a sense of belonging among citizens.
“I just want to give a brief update on what has happened today, in the case of the rerun election.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Justice Ahmed Mohammed had, on 31 March 2022, discharged and acquitted the ex-NNPC GMD of the money laundering charge.
“We must, as civilised people, explore established channels of complaints against alleged infractions by law enforcement officials rather than this uncouth behaviour of assaulting the country’s symbol of authority.
When PREMIUM TIMES contacted the school, only one of the three mobile numbers on their official website was answered.
The Third Turkey-Africa Partnership Summit was held in 2021, and the last India-Africa Forum Summit was in 2015.
“Within the legal profession, we are working to resolve the perennial challenges of employee remuneration, through the recommendations of the NBA remuneration committee.
“I am appealing to the Federal Government and other stakeholders as a matter of urgency to do the needful for the sea surge not to wipe out the entire Ayetoro community.
The conduct of the media, especially the so-called Fifth Estate, has been unimaginably irritating.
He mentioned the projects executed to include; the remodeling of Eastern Naval Command swimming pool with a lounge, mini mart and restaurant.
“Governance is not about sainthood.
According to the judge, under the new human rights regime, a court shall not dismiss a human right action for mere want of locus standi.
PREMIUM TIMES reported that the CCB invited Mr Keyamo to “adopt the aforementioned petition and to provide any additional information.”
The graduate of the law faculty of the University of Calabar was appointed to the Court of Appeal bench on 24 March 2014, making this year his ninth on the court’s bench where he occupies the 44th position on the roll call.
Court asks lawyers to avoid technicalities, focus on substance of election petition
She said many Nigerians were still facing challenge with passport processing, despite the six weeks time line of processing passport, given by the federal government barely a year ago .
Mr Muhammad said the terrorists changed about three negotiators because of mistrust, “but he trusts Abubakar and we don’t have an option than to trust him too.”
This year's program which came under the motif: “Champion Building Edition” focuses on building the capacity of female journalists to strategically engage the media, its stakeholders and society.
The attempt will see Hilda Baci take an hour break in-between every 12 hours of cooking.
Mr Betara also faulted the zoning of the speaker and deputy senate president to the North-west.
Similarly in the South-west, Mr Tinubu got 2.2 million votes, representing 54 per cent of the total votes in the region.
The clash, this newspaper learnt, began on Monday in Idu, headquarters of Uruan Local Government Area located along the Nwaniba Road and later spread to communities around the area.
“Yes, we have been talking with them and they have said they want money but they are yet to mention the amount,” Mr Ogwo added.
Champion Breweries completed the top 5, climbing by 8.3 per cent to N0.39.
If the PDP can put more pressure on Mr Wamakko in the metropolitan local government areas, the margin may reduce, but the APC is strong in the central zone with the governor-elect being from the metropolis local government area.
Although Sulaimon Adekunle, popularly known as KS1, has yet to do many crossovers, he solidly has three singles featuring another musician.
The police spokesperson in the state, Daniel Ndukwe, who disclosed this in a statement on Tuesday, said two members of the syndicate had been arrested by the police.
“Ajibola was a thorough prince of Egbaland, who believes in the legacies of our forefathers.
Mr Ozekhome announced in a statement on Wednesday that he would, by the appointment, serve at the Faculty of Law, “with effect from the 2022/2023 academic session”.
From the Defence House, Mr Tinubu will receive briefings and hold key meetings as president-elect when he eventually moved into it.
“It gives fillip to the government’s determination to groom a mass of adequately equipped youths who are global-ready’’ she said.
We urge our party leaders, members and all Nigerians to continue to work for peace and progress of our country during and beyond the current period of leadership transition.
”Though we are aware that challenges still exist, we are committed to working towards a greater participation of all Nigerians in the democratic process, including those in the diaspora.”
We took the assurances in good faith.
“After aborting the pregnancy he continued the sexual abuse until I couldn’t take it anymore, which I have to report to an NGO who reported the case to NSCDC,” the victim narrated.
You are the shining arm of our party going forward.
“We can’t claim sole credit for these achievements, but we have played a leading role in all of them.
Three automatic pump action guns, 31 rounds of live cartridges, 59 rounds of AK-47 ammunition, one police hand grenade, IPOB/ESN insignia, and police uniforms, were among the items recovered during the operation, according to the police.
“The 2011 polls recorded 800 deaths, the 2015 polls recorded 100 deaths and the 2019 polls recorded 150 deaths.
He said Mr Wada was rushed to the hospital by his colleagues.
As things stand, the South-east appears to be looking at the Senate presidency as about three candidates have shown interest in the position.
Mr Obi further said his intention to develop the country has nothing to do with being a religious or tribal bigot.
Needing a victory to reach the knock-out round, the Flying Eagles could only draw with The Netherlands in their final group game in Monterrey.
Mr Ngige of the PDP, who now serves as Nigeria’s Minister of Labour and Employment, was declared the winner of the election, although he was later sacked by the Court of Appeal in Enugu, three years after.
Troops of Operation Hadarin Daji on Sunday neutralised three bandits in an ambush at the Anka-Dan Kapani crossing in the Anka Local Government Area of Zamfara.
The memo, which was referenced: REG/ADM.38, was dated Tuesday, 18 April.
He said this was done out of a concern that law enforcement might raid their offices and use the information they found to accuse the company of corruption.
The corps marshal said the police and the FRSC rescue team collaborated in the operation.
Nigeria’s manufacturing sector shrinks in March as cash scarcity bites
Mr Olasupo, who was the lead campaigner for youth participation in elections in Nigeria, especially in Kwara State, North-central region, is expected to share his experiences and insights on how to foster trust among young people in the multilateral system and how intergenerational and peer-to-peer dialogue can facilitate this process.
The dismissal of the chief in such an important government agency towards the end of Mr Buhari’s administration was a surprise to many.
One person died in the clash and another was hospitalised.
“If you can have such a fantastic idea and over 350 people are working in that farm, not even one is from my village.
“Counsel to the State had earlier applied that the court should order the attendance of the State Pathologist at the cost of the Applicant which the Applicant did not object to.
PREMIUM TIMES reported that the governors of the ruling APC have proposed the zoning of the speakership to the North-west or North-central geopolitical.
“While we thank friends and well wishers who identified with us, particularly during our mother’s last days, we enjoin you to remember the family in your prayers,” he added.
The lawmakers resolved on Tuesday during plenary following a motion of urgent public importance moved by Unyime Idem (PDP, Akwa-Ibom).
This is contained in a statement by the examination body’s spokesperson, Fabian Benjamin.
Born into the family of Emi-Abata of Saki on April 30, 1938, Koleoso had his primary education at Baptist Primary School, Ajegunle, Saki and later proceeded to the famous Olivet Baptist High School, Oyo, where he was from 1957 to 1961.
We ensured an attractive framework for the indigenous companies to take advantage of divestment by International Oil Companies’ (IOCs) assets.
INEC conducted supplementary elections in 2,660 polling units across 185 local government areas in 24 states on 15 April.
Displeased with the partial discharge handed down by the court, Mr Kanu proceeded on appeal to the Court of Appeal in Abuja to attack the rest of the seven counts.
The federal government said the installation of the scanner would strengthen security at railway stations across the country.
“Other zones voted massively for the party and the President-elect, Bola Tinubu, while you decided to give your votes entirely to the Labour Party.
• Williams Eteng Jonah Cross River Central
“While the surrendered Boko Haram/Islamic State of West Africa Province terrorists and members of their families were profiled for further action.
“Whether having regard to Section 84 (12) of the Electoral Act (2022) the 7th Respondent (APC) can validly nominate any of the 1st to 6th Respondents as her Candidate for the Kogi State Governorship Election in the face of their failure as political appointees/public servants, to resign from service of the state government at the time of the primary election, ” the asked.
“Nobody is having anything against the president-elect, but he (Tinubu) shouldn’t have been part of this in the first place.
Challenges in paying workers wages were cited as a key reason companies chose to cut staff.
Mr Tinubu, who was the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), defeated Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Mr Obi of Labour Party (LP) in the 25 February presidential election.
The Supreme Court on Thursday adjourned an appeal by the Nigerian government challenging the release of Nnamdi Kanu, leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB).
“The registration number of the shuttle bus is EBJ 350 XA while the articulated vehicle has no registration number.
The vice presidential candidate of the Labour Party, Datti Baba-Ahmed, had during an interview on Channels called on the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Olukayode Ariwoola, not to swear in the president-elect.
But the President-elect seems aware of his inheritance: Nigeria is one country and we must build it together,” he said in his acceptance speech.
Other centres visited by our reporters in Lagos and Abuja, however, revealed that there were minimal challenges.
“I commiserate with the government and people of plateau state, the Miskhakam Mwagavul, the Governor-Elect of Plateau State and indeed the Chairman of Mangu LGA on the attack and pray for the repose of the souls of those killed,” he said.
The NHRC’s Project Coordinator of Mobilising Voters for Election (MOVE) reported the level of human rights violations associated with the elections.
A decision is expected within weeks.
Speaking with PREMIUM TIMES on Tuesday, the woman activist, Abiodun Thomas, said the incident happened at Onikan in Lagos on Monday.
These three big, bold ideas warranted the CHANGE in 2015 and the President never lost sight of them.
PRESIDENT BUHARI TERMINATES APPOINTMENT OF SARATU UMAR AS NIPC BOSS
It’s been good to experience Nigeria.
The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) in the state, Ramhan Nansel, confirmed this to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Monday in Lafia.
“It is therefore very curious to ask the National Communication Commission the reason behind rushing to sell the spectrum that is specifically and legitimately allocated for broadcasting in Nigeria,” the statement said.
Nigerian university appoints new deputy vice chancellor, others
The list, now in its 20th year, recognises the activism, innovation, and achievement of the world’s most influential individuals in their respective fields of human endeavour.
I spend up to N500,000 at once just in solidarity with authors, I buy books and share them with friends and family members.
They said there is a need to involve an implementation committee which should include the disability community and civil society groups.
President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the suspension of Hudu Ari, the INEC Resident Electoral Commissioner who declared Aisha Dahiru winner of the Adamawa governorship election.
Are we still following the rules?
“The occupants of these buildings were duly notified of the impending demolitions, and an intensive awareness campaign through “stop work” markings and planting of notice boards within the Red Zone,” FAAN said.
According to him, these factors necessitated the approval by the Chief of Army Staff, Faruk Yahaya, a lieutenant general, for the conduct of the 2023 trooping and presentation of colours parade.
Meanwhile, INEC is expected to resume the announcement of the final results of the election any moment.
They include Chinedu Ogah (Ebonyi), Adewumi Onanuga (Ogun), Tolulope Akande-Sadipe (Oyo) and Francis Waive (Delta).
He added that all workers in the education and health sectors and even the defence agencies benefited from the adjustment.
That aspirant’s alleged gaffe cuts no ice with me.
[PHOTO CREDIT: Official webpage of Court of Appeal]They will return to a packed courtroom to announce their decision – whether the result of the 25 February presidential election declared by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on 1 March was valid or not valid.
“The North-West has seven states and in the last election, we gave the President-elect more than 2.7 million votes.
“Such a meeting would have been contrary to the oath of neutrality that we all swore to.”
The president of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Yakubu Maikyau, has again, appealed for the release of his kidnapped predecessor, Okey Wali, who has now spent nine nights in captivity.
The judge, however, refused the EFCC’s prayer seeking the final forfeiture of the sum of N290 million.
Mr Akabueze said the funding must come from both government and private entities to meet the annual target of infrastructural investments.
In the city of Cesena, where the Saviour River overflowed its banks, emergency services rescued dozens of people trapped on the roofs of their houses.
The National Chairman of IPAC, Sani Yabagi, said this when he read the communique issued after the council general assembly meeting on Thursday in Abuja.
“Measures to address structural factors impeding supply could ameliorate medium-term growth.
‘‘With this inauguration, which serves as our first meeting, I hereby direct the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Professor Isa Ali Ibrahim (Pantami), to convene another meeting of the Council in May 2023 to make further progress on the implementation of the Act.
The government challenged the Court of Appeal’s jurisdiction to entertain Mr Kanu’s interlocutory appeal “which was filed without leave of the Federal High Court.”
No fewer than three aspirants from the zone have shown interest in the House of Representatives speakership position.
“The soldiers, led by an officer identified only as Aro, a major, moved to the scene in combat gear and armour vehicles, unfortunately, the terrorists fled the scene, and the soldiers recovered eleven corpses of the residents in the bush including that of one person initially killed on Thursday.
Mr Kanu’s lead lawyer, Mike Ozekhome, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), confirmed receipt of the filing on Thursday.
Awurum became famous after being featured in the movie “Apama” alongside the late Sam Loco Efe.
The first documented case in the country is reported to have occurred in 1969, and the virus was named after the town of Lassa, Borno State in Nigeria.
“Its explosion will no doubt set the economy of Nigeria backward geometrically and further create some unforeseen consequential repercussions for the incoming administration amidst numerous campaign promises, high determination to deliver as well as high expectations from the electorates” he said.
He said the decisions were taken during the 20th Plenary Meeting of the Commission, presided over by its Chairman, Solomon Arase.
While the overall Programme Development Objective (PrDO) was signed Wednesday in Lagos, the first phase of the recognised proof of unique identity that facilitates access to services has already been implemented by the government of Cote d’Ivoire and Guinea.
This is a total recklessness of all of the developers and we will make a strong point out of this place and all around Banana Island and in other developments that we have,” he said.
“I can’t remember the last time I saw or used the new notes because even the banks are dispensing old notes both at the ATMs and in the banking hall.
The Corps Marshal, Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Dauda Biu, has commended the patrol teams of Osun State command for returning N27.1 million recovered from an accident scene.
According to the German Defence Ministry, the country’s armed forces, or Bundeswehr, are preparing for a new attempt to evacuate German citizens.
He said the military was also ready to provide similar support towards the conduct of the remaining elections in two states, where elections were declared inconclusive.
“The 1st respondent knowingly failed, omitted and concealed to state those schools in his educational qualifications, which he earlier under oath in 1999 claimed to have attended and obtained relevant certificates from.”
Nigeria’s Professor Jacob Olupona of Harvard University has been elected to the illustrious American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the Academy announced Wednesday, at Cambridge, Massachusetts, from its headquarters.
For the gas export market, he said the ongoing NLNG Train 7 will expand Nigeria’s LNG production capacity from 22 to about 30 million tons per annum (30 MTPA).
This is mainly seen in Xavier’s face, who showed no significant reaction as the secrets were revealed.
You may wish to refer to your previous releases establishing same position.”
According to the Jigawa State Governor who chairs the Ad-Hoc Committee 16 States have sent in the required report of the extent of damage occasioned by flooding across this country during the last rainy season.
Angola overtakes Nigeria as Africa’s top crude producer
Susan Ojeamiren, also a trainer, said the aim of the outreach was to contribute positively to people’s lives by teaching them various skills and means of survival.
Fuji artistes stuck to making revered songs in the traditional Yoruba language for years.
“The leadership of the Lagos state PDP and our gubernatorial candidate, Dr Abdul-Azeez Adediran (JANDOR) and members of our party heartily rejoice with Adeleke on his victory at the Supreme Court.
The incident happened in Ihiagwa, Owerri West Local Government Area of Imo State.
11:24am: APC lawyer, Mr Fagbemi did not object to the withdrawal of the petitioner’s lawyer.
In a statement on Friday, the police spokesperson in the state, Odiko Macdon said the suspects were remanded at the Ikot Ekpene Correctional Centre.
He said as the “image manager” of the police, on a daily basis, he is faced with issues bordering on non-professionalism, brutality, and high-handedness.
Our reporter observed that a few patients were waiting to be attended to.
“We also find that a reduction of 5% for the amount of co-operation given, being only sending back the signed letter, was a reasonable reduction.
“I think that the zoning of the Senate Presidency to South-south is not entirely a bad idea because the zone performed better in terms of voting for the APC in the last election,” he said.
Group asks Gov Uzodinma to step down from gov race over killings in Imo
Less than a million votes separated Atiku Abubakar and Peter Obi, despite the difference in established structures.
“The Company continues to engage with the Ministry of Interior to bring closure to the false allegations presented to the Ministry as a result of which the residency status of its Chief Executive Officer was withdrawn,” Seplat Energy said.
During the High Court trial earlier this year, lawyers for the Nigerian government argued that not only was the original gas contract tainted by corruption, but that P&ID figures also engaged in bribery to win the U.K. arbitration.
Meanwhile, the commissioner also noted that towards achieving proper management of Lassa fever cases, NCDC has designated some zonal centres and that the one in the South-west is located in Owo, Ondo State.
“We, the Executives of Kukadi/Gundari ward in Misau local government area of Bauchi state have agreed to expel Babayo Misau, the State APC Chairman from the membership of the party in Misau LGA because of acts of disloyalty and betrayal to our great party.
The Federal High Court in Abuja handed down the order of perpetual injunction in a judgement on Wednesday, cancelling NBC’s powers to impose a fine on broadcast stations.
Mr Kalu promised to promote and defend the constitution as well as foster a congenial and cordial relationship between the executive and the judiciary.
The group, under the aegis of North-central APC Stakeholders, made the call on Sunday during a separate press briefing in Abuja.
The minister restated the government commitment while briefing State House correspondents on the outcome of the Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting in Abuja on Wednesday.
After four weeks vacation, Tinubu returns to Nigeria
“The stipulated practice is to give out the prescribed measurement to beneficiaries in the last two days of Ramadan and not later than before the ‘Id prayer, the NSCIA said.
Onimode Bandele, Director of Special Duties, National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) gave the figure in Abuja on Saturday when 125 stranded Nigerians arrived at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport.
A former Indian parliamentarian, Atiq Ahmed, and his brother were on Saturday shot dead on live TV while fielding questions from reporters in India.
The Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama, said this while addressing journalists at the State House, Abuja, at the end of Wednesday’s meeting of the Federal Executive Council, chaired by President Muhammadu Buhari.
We were buying money.
The National Assembly must continue to grapple with low public esteem and condemnation.
Speaking at the presentation, a traditional leader, Oba Adekanmbi Oladega, thanked SOS Children village, Nigeria, for the humanitarian intervention to people of Agboyi community affected by the flood of 2022.
In the hotly contested election, Mr Tinubu polled 8.8 million votes to beat the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential flag bearer, Atiku Abubakar, and the Labour Party’s Peter Obi, who came second and third, respectively.
Marred by allegations of intimidation and vote rigging, the outcome of the ballot is being challenged in court,” the Magazine said.
She said that he also sexually assaulted her there.
“On the other constituency of Abak/Etim Ekpo/Ika Federal Constituency, I am still expecting to hear from them, but I believe at this point things went well.
The federal government has also revised the import prohibition list with the inclusion of used motor vehicles above 12 years from the year of manufacture, Paracetamol tablets Syrups, Cotrimozazole tablets and Syrups, Metronidazole tablets and Syrups, and Chloroquine tablets and Syrups.
The fraudulent people became unemployed,” the president noted.
He claimed Mr Wada, 40, did not respond to the harassment but tried to leave the place, but the policeman was relentless.
If you can live with injustice without anger, you are immoral as well as unjust.” You cannot develop empathy for a victim unless faith enables you to love him/her as a child of God.
But in response to this newspaper’s report, the state government on Saturday denied any wrongdoing, insisting that the patients were receiving care as recommended by the global health organisation.
Nigeria last had its census in 2006.
In a statement signed by Muda Yusuf, director of CPPE, the think tank said the construction and transportation sectors are also vulnerable to fiscal policy-induced downside risks.
The ministry’s Permanent Secretary, Olusegun Ogboye, who confirmed that he was aware of the imported case from another state, said he could not comment until he is properly briefed and that he would revert to this newspaper on the matter.
A faction of the minority caucus met at Fraser Suites, Abuja, but recorded no headway in a plan to upset the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the speakership race
He explained if the commission decides to enforce those sections, the citizens could “resist them.”
She served in that role from 1993 to 1997, managing the Bank’s assets in international capital markets.
Mr Adegoroye said one of the statutory responsibilities of the Nigerian Ports Authority was the provision of marine services, being the regulatory agency in that sector.
It would look like there was no contest in the first place.
“We call on the President-elect, the Progressives Governor’s Forum (PGF) and the state chairmen of our party to implement a government of national competence by supporting the zoning of the Senate Presidency to the South-south and Deputy to the North-west,” Mr Ogenyi said.
The Supreme Court on Tuesday upheld Ademola Adeleke's victory in the July 16, 2022 Osun governorship poll.
Still stressing that the failure to upload the results of the presidential elections substantially marred the exercise and insinuating that this was deliberate, Chimamanda wrote, “Curiously, many polling units were able to upload the results of the House and Senate elections, but not the presidential election…The Senate and House results were easily uploaded.
“I will be in the private sector, not any chief of staff.
He described Mr Iwuanyanwu as a “dynamic, versatile, purpose driven and broad-minded personality of impeccable pedigree” and appealed to the governor to grant his approval to his adoption by the council.
They have to reach out to the people.
All obstructions have been cleared.
The judge added that in evidence given orally at the hearing, Mr Fagbewesa stated that his holdalls were not locked at all and that any padlocks on them were added after he had checked them in Lagos.
In the wake of Mr Apapa’s takeover of the secretariat, the INEC-recognised leadership of the Labour Party, led by Julius Abure, had accused the police of working with thugs to invade the party headquarters.
Years later, she runs into Xavier again and realises she still feels for him.
In the 2023 general elections, Mr Bafarawa backed PDP candidates, including his son who contested for deputy governor while Mr Wamakko, who is contesting to retain his senate seat, is the defacto leader of the APC.
Another factor that may decide the elections is that civil servants that were hitherto afraid of voting for APC before the governorship election may feel it is now safe to do so since the governor in waiting is of the APC.
Adebayo did not respond to a request for comment.
“Now, where the defendant willfully rejects the medical facility given to him by his custodian merely for the fact that such facility is not up to the standard that he expects, then, he has no good medical grounds for application for bail.
Mr Gagdi is one of 11 aspirants that are jostling for the position.
“We encourage the incoming government to engage in the fight against terrorism with renewed determination by equipping the security personnel with state-of-the-art weapons and improving their emoluments,” it said.
The spokesperson for the Force Headquarters, Muyiwa Adejobi, in a statement on Tuesday, said Adejoh Siaka, the inspector who assaulted the motorist, has been demoted to the rank of sergeant after an administrative trial.
NAN recalls that the chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission, (INEC), Mahmood Yakubu, had declared Tinubu the winner of the 25 February presidential election.
The 2023 general election is the worst election the country ever had since the current republic; since 1999 to date.
The court granted the government all its prayers.
You have managed the affairs of NEC with a sense of fairness and patriotism.
“It is important that relevant individuals within the agriculture space should collaborate with the media to keep the government accountable,” he said
The trial has been the longest of individuals prosecuted for their alleged roles in Liberia’s two civil wars between 1999 to 2003.
The police spokesperson in the state, Mohammed Jalige didn’t respond to SMS on the arrest.
The judge, who struck out the amended charge, only discharged all the nine defendants of the charge.
A video shared with PREMIUM TIMES on Thursday showed a crowd of applicants arriving at the JAMB office in Ikoyi as early as 5 a.m., while others were seen sleeping on the road and open ground near the JAMB office’s premises.
What we are witnessing today, I have never seen that kind of moment in the parliament.
APC denies involvement in Labour Party crisis
"These individuals have been involved in intimidation of voters through threats and physical violence, the manipulation of vote results ..."
Mr Adebanjo noted that the appointments were approved by the university’s governing council and announced in a letter dated 28th April.
I worked for Femi for four years.”
There is another irony in this saga.
The Commissioner of Police in Rivers State, Okon Effiong earlier on Monday ordered the arrest of the officers, and promised to get them sanctioned for their action.
It is a fulfillment of a major campaign promise by the deputy Senate president to the good people of Ndokwa nation during the last electoral campaigns.
According to him, only persons with the intellectual ability with broad and sound knowledge would be considered for appointment to the Federal High Court Bench.
Buhari seeks Senate approval of Data Protection Bill
INEC declares Tambuwal, Wamakko, others winners of NASS elections in Sokoto
An independent tally of votes kept by PREMIUM TIMES based on the results uploaded on the IReV portal of INEC confirmed Mr Obi won Rivers State.
President Erdoğan wrote, “On behalf of the Turkish Nation and my own, I would like to extend my heartfelt congratulations to Your Excellency on the occasion of your election as the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria at the elections held on February 25, 2023.
With the conclusion of the 2023 elections, I now welcome all of us who have been elected to brace up to serve our people with diligence and dedication and to join hands with me as your President-elect in the pursuit of our agenda to renew the hopes of our people in a better, stronger, more secure, economically vibrant and prosperous Nigeria.
The group also resolved to send a protest letter to the National Assembly and other relevant agencies to express their feelings.
“In the same vein, candidates are advised against going into the examination halls with prohibited items such as wristwatches, calculators, flash drives, phones, among others.”
The students escaped days after they were kidnapped
Ahmed contested a few more elections in the next decade but lost all of them.
This is contained in a statement by the EFCC.
PDP national vice chairman is dead
Mr Oyebanji spoke on Saturday when he made a surprise visit to the State Special School for the Blind in Ikere Ekiti.
“The health minister will instruct the teaching hospitals to employ adhoc people for those five days and they will use the money of the people who went on strike to pay the adhoc doctors.
Spokesperson of the FRSC, Bisi Kazeem, an assistant corps marshal, confirmed the accident in a statement he issued on Sunday in Abuja.
A prosecution witness is hospitalized in Sierra Leone, while a defence witness—a policeman couldn’t come to Liberia, because his superior didn’t approve his travel.
An American diplomat and a foreign observer in the 2023 general elections, Johnnie Carson, says three factors were responsible for the victory of the President-elect, Bola Tinubu.
In her remarks, the Provost of the College of Medicine, Olayinka Omigbodun, urged the government to “relax its policies such as TSA, which are strangulating research efforts in the universities.”
The President said he is deeply pained to learn about these gruesome deaths and expresses sincere condolences to the families of the victims.
But in a new report on Tuesday, Bloomberg reported that Seyi Tinubu is a beneficial owner of the property through shell company Aranda Overseas Corporations, citing UK company documents.
It is unconstitutional and all of us know that.
We’ve done this for years.
“And that was precisely what Obi’s running mate said on live television and I have not heard Obi rein him in or correct him; so, if your running mate says something; of course, he was saying on behalf of the party and on behalf of the candidate.
Others are The Labour Party presidential candidate, Peter Obi, Enugu State Governor-elect, Peter Mbah, former Governor of Imo State, Ikedi Ohakim and a former President-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Adolphus Wabara, among others.
She oversaw the accelerated delivery of results on the $9 billion West Africa portfolio, engaging with governments, the private sector, regional economic communities, and non-state actors, to achieve significant, life-transforming development impact.
Suggesting to the CCB to stay action on the case, Mr Ozekhome said in the letter dated 7 April and shared with PREMIUM TIMES on Wednesday, that he wrote the CBB following media reports of the agency’s invitation to Mr Keyamo to shed light on the allegations contained in his petition.
• Yaro Anthony Siyako Gombe South
“The CBN made a formal response to this committee indicating that under the TSA policy “agencies operate their TSA account and make expenditure from these account without recourse to the CBN.”
The lawyer in his filings before the judge, James Omotosho, prayed the court to nullify CAMA’s sections 839, 842, 843, 844, 845, 846, 847, and 848, due to what he described as their violation of Nigerians’ fundamental rights to freedom of thoughts, conscience and religion as enshrined in section 38 of the constitution.
“However, the Bill made adequate provision in Section 38 (8) was made to accommodate individuals, groups, associations or bodies that have shown or demonstrated interest to be absorbed as members of the Corps shall be absorbed subject to the mandatory basic training and orientation programme of the Corps as prescribed on the commencement of this Act.”
Oron is a coastal community.
The Leader of the delegation, Ismail Dabo, the member-elect of Toro Federal Constituency of Bauchi State, while speaking with journalists, said the new members are backing the Borno State lawmaker and will campaign for him.
“…That time has come for Igbos to become intentional about their strategic disposition in Nigeria and therefore, should expand conversations around the issue with a view to strengthening their relationship with other ethnic groups across the country,” Mr Ikpeazu said.
With one in four people in the world likely to be African by 2050, major powers realise the need to align with Africa.
“We are working assiduously to ensure timely delivery of major domestic gas pipeline infrastructure projects including the Abuja-Kaduna-Kano gas pipeline corridor and associated power plants.
In the letter, dated 6 April, Mr Kyari said the party is rescinding its letter of 25 January, where it declared to use indirect primary.
“It must also shun the winner, take it all syndrome and pursue ethnoreligious inclusivity and a strong, virile, united, progressive, prosperous, equitable and just democratic nation.
The designated centers include Abuja, Kaduna, Jos, Kano, Yola, Enugu, Port Harcourt, Benin, Ibadan, Ikeja, Eko, and Maiduguri.
“I think in the beginning, we never took the fight against drug abuse serious in this country.
In the court filings signed by the Director of Public Prosecution of the Federation (DPPF), Mohammed Abubakar, the government urged the court to grant its appeal and set aside the Court of Appeal’s judgement.
He narrated how he intimated the relevant government agencies of his intention to repatriate the funds from the foreign accounts and his later decision to buy properties with the funds.
Consequently, he said the funding gaps have been contributing to declining progress in the countries with the highest burden of malaria.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), reports that the presentation, which was done in Abuja, was under the 2021/2022 Group Life Assurance Scheme of the Armed Forces.
The university said the action of the mob, “being a violation of the law of the country and of the university regulations, has been reported to the police who have commenced investigations,”
On its part, the CAC contended that the plaintiff’s case was frivolous as “there is nothing in the Companies and Allied Matters Act that affects his livelihood or infringe on his fundamental rights.”
“Prevention is not only better but also cheaper, the agency strongly believes that when these warnings are heeded, the lives and properties of people will be saved,” she added.
Mr Egwuatu, a resident of the community, was arraigned before the court on Wednesday, and charged for raping the child, according to a statement on Friday by Chidinma Ikeanyiownu, a media aide to the State Commissioner for Women and Social Welfare, Ify Obinabo.
“Just on Tuesday morning, our legal team was confronted by the stark revelation that these men have advanced their plots by approaching tribunals where our candidates lodged petitions to discontinue the cases,’’ Mr Ifoh stated.
RRS Awkuzu is a police unit created from the disbanded Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) following the #EndSARS protest across Nigeria in October 2020.
Commending the judiciary, Mr Amode said judges were expected to be above board without being intimidated or influenced by corrupt politicians in any matter before them.
The police spokesperson in the state, Henry Okoye, said the police had deployed operational and tactical teams to the area, to track down the hoodlums and forestall breakdown of law and order in the area.
If we don’t do this – as women in the National Assembly, what is our number?
PREMIUM TIMES gathered that results from the remaining local government had not been received by the INEC when the REC announced Mrs Dahiru as the winner.
“Their appointments take effect from 6th January 2023 and 18th April 2023, respectively,” he said.
Read fuller details of the judges here.
Other defence lawyers alligned with Osigwe’s submission.
Plateau State Governor, Simon Lalong, on Tuesday directed security agencies to arrest the perpetrators of the overnight attack on Kubat Village in Mangu Local Government where many including women and children were reportedly killed.
The defendants, all from Kalawa Village, Ringim Local Government area, were arraigned before the court on a four-count charge of criminal conspiracy, criminal trespass, unlawful assembly and culpable homicide.
His wife, the victim’s mother, during the lockdown when school children had migrated to online classes, was informed that the victim had not been attending his online school classes for two days.
While details of the LP presidential caandidate’s ordeal in London are still sketchy, independent requests forwarded to the UK government through its Home Office by this newspaper were not properly attended to.
We thought the information from last year would help (the authorities) plan well for this year but here we are today.
He said Nigeria’s animal feed sector remains underdeveloped, largely due to high-cost ingredients and other production factors, which has resulted in market dislocation and hampered access to products and affordability, thereby barring an average farmer from the supply network.
The immediate-past President of the Court of Appeal, Zainab Bulkachuwa, appointed herself to the position during the 2019 election cycle and only withdrew after succumbing to relentless calls on her by the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to step down.
He denied the rape in Croydon, claiming that the allegation was malicious and prompted by Susan’s desire for revenge on him for his decision to break up the family home and leave his partner Mary in Nigeria to renew his relationship with his wife, whom Susan disliked.
Mr Gyang blamed the killings on the government, noting that the main responsibility of the government is to protect lives and properties.
The petitioner argued that Mr Tinubu’s victory will not stand due to the “flawed process” of nominating his vice presidential pick, Kashim Shettima.
It should learn from mistakes made at the 2023 elections and correct them in the future,’’ he said.
“Persons who had never aspired to political office or whose previous aspirations had failed, succeeded this time.
He said the committee would fully rectify all issues and offer final recommendations on the subject to the party’s leadership.
Maiduguri will receive the first radar owing to the insecurity in the region, Mr Lawrence told PREMIUM TIMES.
‘‘The Conference Car Unit (CCU) workshop and the Modern Fleet Management hub will be commissioned next week,’’ he added.
Mr Ali said that Hauwa Maltha and Esther Marcus, both serial numbers two and 103 in the list of the missing victims, were rescued on 21 April by troops of 114 Taskforce Battalion Bitta at Lagara, under the 21 armoured Brigade Bama during Operations.
It was a further testimony that our citizens have accepted democratic norms and have unalloyed faith in the electoral process,” the president-elect said.
The director assured that once the managers of the market undertake to clean up, they will be allowed to resume trading in the market.
However, following an appeal filed by Ms Usman, seeking a transfer of the case on jurisdictional grounds, the court of appeal ruled in favour of the defendant.
Some of us are determined to be “brain-gain” to Nigeria.
Political intrigue reached a fever pitch as Nigeria’s general elections unfolded, captivating the nation’s attention.
Delivering judgement on Wednesday, the judge, Umaru Fadawu, of the High Court of Borno State, in Maiduguri, found the defendant guilty of the offence.
TotalEnergies has not responded to a PREMIUM TIMES’ email seeking clarification as of the time of filing this report.
Represented by Sunny Goli, a member of the House of Representatives, he said: “Lets us work together as a family to win the Bayelsa governorship election on Nov. 11, 2023.”
“But the good thing is that because of herd immunity, the symptoms are not as very fatal as they used to be in the beginning.
I have the confidence that he has what it takes to turn Nigeria around,” he said.
It is a crime and a crime against you.
So the coming of the next government which is APC, won’t throw the investment away because it’s not their government so it will continue,” he added.
Little wonder, fewer and fewer citizens want to risk their lives for what promises them only blood, tears, injury and death.
“Why are you trying to manipulate the list in favour of one aspirant?
“I think that the stabilizing voice of the National Economic Council has already been very well-acknowledged including by Mr President himself on several occasions when he has had cause to comment on the work of the National Economic Council and your Excellencies, the governors.
Nigeria’s foremost investigative newspaper, PREMIUM TIMES, has written the United Kingdom government requesting the details of the arrest and detention of the Labour Party presidential candidate, Peter Obi, by its immigration officials at Heathrow airport in London last week.
The police also recently demoted an officer who was filmed slapping a motorist in Rivers State.
Citizens, and vehicular movements, in the eastern states of Nigeria, the prosecution said, were grounded as a result of the sit-at-home order.
Silva scored again in the 37th minute, heading home a well-placed cross to double City’s lead before the halftime whistle.
Mr Nwachukwu explained that the national and regimental colours carried by army units during parades and ceremonial activities were an important source of identity and pride not only for the units involved but for the army and the Armed Forces of Nigeria.
He also used his belt repeatedly to strike him on the back, arms and shoulders.
The perpetrators are also well known to local and international authorities.
Although the police is yet to give the number of those who lost their lives, residents told journalists that more than 30 people were killed in the incident.
Ahead of the capacity building workshop, Mboho Eno, the Deputy Director, Accountability at CJID, said that the workshop was necessary after CJID identified the gap in reporting foreign financial flows to Nigeria.
On his part, Adekeye Adetayo, a crop pasture expert, said in an attempt to feed animals, experts must not create another problem for the environment.
The most-watched sports events in the world
Some of them are taking it as the fourth session and some of them will take it tomorrow,” he said.
He said that the Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning also had approval for the construction of the FIRS multi-storey office complex at Agidingbi Training School, Ikeja, Lagos, for N10.3 billion.
The latest violence is coming after the state government initiated several measures such as curfews and other security restrictions.
“So, today, there was a memo before the council for the provision of baggage scanners at railway stations and I am happy to inform you that the council agreed with us and approved that contract for scanners to be installed at railway stations.
“I received with a deep sense of loss the news of the death of Engr.
Women employed as street sweepers in Calabar Municipality and Calabar South Local Government Areas of Cross River State on Tuesday protested the non-payment of their stipends for about four months.
For non-founders, it said they previously listed couples and family members together in certain cases, however, this year, they separated these shared fortunes into individual list members, marked “split family fortune.”
Meanwhile, the examination body has blamed the candidates for waiting until the last minute before showing up for registration.
Federal govt concessions Onitsha Port
In each of the 36 states, less than half of the eligible population turned out to vote, and only Jigawa State had a turnout above 40 per cent.
The North-central caucus said its candidate for the position of deputy senate president is Sani Musa from Niger State.
This newspaper on Saturday reported Mr Buhari’s postponement of the census.
But PREMIUM TIMES’ review of the results from various polling units of the 17 wards in Obio/Akpor LGA as uploaded on IReV revealed a sharp contrast with the result declared by INEC.
Her lawyer, Hussaini Zakariyau, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), said a judicial review exists to enable a superior court to stop the actions and decisions of lower courts as well as the legislative and administrative arm of government including agencies and public officers.
Mr Ekpenyong urged the court to further determine whether those sections infringed on his freedom of peaceful assembly and association as enshrined in section 40 of the 1999 Constitution.
“They merely asked if we are ready to comply; I was confused and I switched off the phone,” he said.
He added that only a court can nullify the actions of an official of INEC and not INEC itself.
Oyo, in the south-west, had a turnout of 31 per cent.
“We saw that the French convoy was attacked and so forth.
They have shown their love for it and will defend it against real or perceived threats.
The community comprises three quarters: Ezi represented by Aganama, Ifite-Ezeudene and Ikenga-Ezeodinwe.
These include Mr Kalu and Osita Izunaso.
Mr Akpabio is one of the contenders for the office of the Senate president in the yet-to-be-inaugurated 10th National Assembly.
El-Rufai’s Kaduna State (and a few others like Kwara, until lately) has been doing this voluntarily.
I deliberately arranged to be as far away as possible.
“In their pleadings,” Mr Oyetola and APC “alleged that the results recorded and transmitted directly from the polling units were not taken into account and therefore accredited voters recorded in Form EC8A from the disputed polling units do not tally with the number of BVAS for the same polling units.
Emma Powerful, in the statement on Tuesday, said the silence and delay of the court to hear the appeal was worrisome given all the accelerated hearing processes filed on the case.
“He was so nice to my siblings and I.
Its Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in Oyo State, Adeniran Tella, said on Friday at a stakeholders’ meeting in Ibadan that the registered voters in the affected polling units are 5,926.
Altogether, there are 227,743 eligible voters to participate in the election.
Mr Lado also said the former senators’ endorsement of Messrs Akpabio and Jibrin is to ensure that the party balances the issue of ethnicity and religious diversity in the political leadership.
The PDP said the spontaneous jubilation after the official declaration of Mr Fintiri as the rightful winner of the election was a confirmation that the party and its candidate were indeed the choice of the people.
Everyone is welcome.”
The Tinubu connection with the property – 32 Grove End Road, London – as well as its link with a petrodollar fraud investigation in Nigeria was first revealed by PREMIUM TIMES as part of the Pandora Papers investigation.
NAN reports that some opposition parties in the state, including the All Progressives Party (APC) boycotted the supplementary elections over alleged lack of transparency by INEC at the gubernatorial elections.
The ruling followed a motion that was brought before the court by Mr Njoku.
Atiku is urging the court to either declare him as president or nullify the polls on account of Mr Tinubu’s failure to secure a majority of lawful votes cast during the presidential election.
Despite working under threat in one of the world’s most dangerous countries for journalism, Aristegui has never wavered from her journalistic mission.
Jubril Opeyemi Azeez (Right Vision Choice Academy)
Afenifere youths demand removal of Ayo Adebanjo as acting leader
We thank God for your gift, we pray God continue to guide you as you serve out your term as the Vice President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, the Chairman of National Economic Council.
Mr Ifoh recalled that the leadership of Labour Party had been swimming through the murky waters of conspiracy, treachery and sabotage orchestrated by the former officers.
The police in Imo State, south-east Nigeria, said they have arrested nine suspected members of the outlawed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) who allegedly killed five officers and a couple in the state.
”The opposition Labour Party, in particular, will go down in the history books as the first-ever distant third-place finisher in a presidential election anywhere to have bold-facedly claimed victory,” he said.
Banks and ATMs were vandalized by angry Nigerians who had no access to their cash, and the policy had a negative impact on Nigerian businesses and households.
In 2021, Operation Kuluna, run jointly between the United States (US) and the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) governments seized 938 kg of ivory and 34 kg of pangolin scales in Kinshasa worth around $3.5 million.
The governor noted that the issue of gratuity of civil servants in the state was worrisome.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the traditional ruler was given an award as Grand Patron of the corps for his contributions to the upliftment of Nigerian youths, among others.
The National Working Committee of the APC recently nominated a former governor of Akwa Ibom State, Godswill Akpabio, for Senate President and the senator representing Kano North, Barau Jibrin, as the Deputy Senate President.
PREMIUM TIMES gathered that the conditions upon which the entrance was granted include details and the schedule of the aircraft conveying them to Nigeria and the capacity of the aircraft.
According to him, if the unit is fully operationalised, it will provide rapid deployment, closed air support, casualty evacuation, prompt delivery of logistics supply, among other roles.
“These benefits of Giwa 2 project informed the timely support of the federal government through the Central Bank of Nigeria to ensure that the centre is commissioned as one of the proud landmarks and enduring achievements of the armed forces of Nigeria under this administration.
“Similar incidents of intimidation were reported in the six geo-political zones.”
What happened is it was not an election, it was a really unforgivable flaw and there is evidence for that.
While Mr Bowale directed this reporter to the state’s ministry of health for further information on the matter, he said the hospital has attended to the patients.
According to him, the state’s civil service is in a state of near collapse and in Intensive Care Unit (ICU), but he has come to infuse life into it and keep it moving.
In the originating summons dated and filed on 31 August 2020, the lawyer prayed the court to determine whether he had the locus standi to institute the proceeding.
Mrs Izonfuo had been at the centre of pre-census activities in Bayelsa in the last two weeks.
Bola Ajibola founded the Crescent University, Abeokuta and an Islamic organisation, Islamic Movement for Africa (IMA).
“I want to suggest that we look at how to rework this bill in itself because as a professional myself I do not think you should be able to practice anything without your licence.
Crisis may erupt in Awkuzu, a community in Oyi Local Government Area of Anambra State over the controversy surrounding the emergence of a traditional ruler of the community, Vanguard newspaper reported.
This administration is your own and it will always be your own,” he said.
Mr Nnamani, who was the president of the Nigerian Senate from 2005 to 2007, recently lost his wife, Jane, who was reported to have lost her battle with diabetes.
Ben Kalu withdraws from speakership race to accept his choice for the position of deputy speaker.
He said he was ready to lead evidence to prove to the court that a host of states controlled by PDP and their governors protested against Atiku’s emergence as party’s candidate and vowed never to support his candidature.
He was also the first Methodist President of CAN.
Mr Tinubu, 70, scored 8,794,726 votes.
• Enyinnaya Harcourt Abaribe Abia South
The wife of the governor, Olayemi Oyebanji, said at the event that the AGILE programme would complement the government’s free education programme.
Every month, the federal government spends N83.333 per inmate for sundry needs, including feeding.
“Angel Gabriel lived in Jujuma [Sierra Leone], said “Defense 6.” “He was a sergeant …that is what I heard from the field radio.”
Kidnappers abduct couple returning from religious worship in Osun
This is contained in a statement by the Force Public Relations Officer, Olumuyiwa Adejobi, on Saturday in Abuja.
The state commander of Amotekun, David Akinremi, confirmed the arrest through a statement on Wednesday in Abeokuta, capital of Ogun state.
Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu [Photo: Champion Newspapers Limited]The communique, made available to reporters in Enugu on Thursday, was signed by the Chairman of the Council in Nigeria, Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu, Secretary-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Okey Emuchay, and its national spokesperson, Chiedozie Ogbonnia.
“We as a ministry and government will continue to provide you with comfort because we cherished the services rendered by our deceased men and officers.
What is CAC’s business with dormant accounts of incorporated trustees?
Speaking on the impact of the cash crunch on farmers, one of the discussants, Ogechi Okebugwu, programme director of Small Scale Women Farmers Association of Nigeria (SWOFON), said the naira scarcity period was a challenging time for farmers.
To benefit, African states must define their collective positions and needs.
I want to assure your Lordships of our unflinching supports.
d. Mr. Danlami Nmodu, mni, Publisher, Newsdiaryonline
“This will serve as a deterrent to anti-democratic forces who may want to torpedo our democracy and provoke violence in our country,“ Atiku said.
The claimants had in a suit filed through their counsel, P.O Okolo, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria, prayed the court to grant them an order of interlocutory injunction restraining PDP and INEC from accepting, dealing and using the list of delegates contained in Exhibit E1-E16.
The House of Representatives has resolved to investigate the utilisation of the Universal Service Provision Fund (USPF) by the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC).
He, however, advised that If urgent action was not taken, funding gaps could mean that approximately four million people in the northeast would be without food assistance at the peak of the lean season.
Jonathan Gunu Taidi – CHAIRMAN
The hospital’s spokesperson, Tayo Haastrup, confirmed that the resident doctors are on strike.
Liberia: Two former RUF soldiers claim deceased soldier was called “Angel Gabriel,” not Massaquoi
“Since the inception of this administration, the nation’s security situation was greatly challenged by the activities of violent non-state actors.
It is like picking 10 at the price of one, who wouldn’t want that?”
Because it is when you beat the policeman that they will say you have run afoul of the law.
Many countries are increasing the number of years of visas they give to Nigerians.
• David Jimkatu – Taraba South
He, however, did not oppose the application.
Unlike her father’s wife in the UK, Susan warmed up to Mary.
In his reaction to the judgment, Mr Kupolati said he would study the judgment and advise his clients accordingly.
The Ebonyi State Government has received a temporary shelter for Gender Based Violence (GBV) survivors in the state.
Mr Tinubu is expected to be sworn in as president on 29 May, although, several political parties are challenging his victory at the Presidential Election Tribunal.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the federal government had established a Niger Delta Amnesty Programme for the disarmament, demobilisation and rehabilitation or reintegration of the militants and development in the oil-producing region.
I am writing you this long letter to bring back to your attention the issue of veto of vital constitutional amendment bills that were recently vetoed by President Muhammadu Buhari.
The SSS opposed the bail application.
“The Charter aims at repositioning the state as one of the top three states in Nigeria in terms of Gross Domestic Product per capita while addressing poverty, unemployment, and insecurity,” Mbah said.
“We are particularly concerned that an increase in demand for Nigeria’s gas resources will aggravate this situation and continue to deprive the country of a clean energy transition.
The Inspector-General of Police has directed the discontinuation of manual processing and issuance of all CMR documents/certificates and a migration to the digitalized NPF CMR platform.
Since Mr Iwuanyanwu was pronounced as the new president-general of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, some Igbo leaders have continued to fault his emergence.
The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and the Trade Union Congress (TUC) had said that the federal government refused their request to use the venue for the Workers Day celebration.
“We have a large expanse of land for industrial purposes, but these lands have been encroached on, and this is why we have gone there to carry out the first phase of the demolition exercise.
And if I have done this and managed members spanning over 40 and delivered.
Court refuses to grant request seeking to postpone census
She stated: “I remember with pride my landmark judgment in SERAP vs.
Meanwhile, Adamu Aliyu has been reappointed as the acting Director, University Health Services Department, and Modibbo Abubakar as Deputy Director, Academic Planning (with effect from March 25, 2023).
According to him, a total of 501 Boko Haram and ISWAP terrorists and their families comprising 60 male adults, 176 female adults and 266 children surrendered to troops at different locations within the theatre of operation.
Every morning I wake up and recall the condition I left them in.
“The Ismail Akapo’s case exposes a corrupt police organization whose job of protecting and enforcing the law of the land, broke every known law in the statute book in protecting one of their own.
“Just like my friend (Mr Makinde) said, a winner has emerged and therefore it is alright to give necessary support in the interest of Nigeria.
President Muhammadu Buhari has described Vice President Yemi Osinbajo as a dedicated and loyal compatriot with a passionate desire for the development of Nigeria.
At the resumed trial of the case on Tuesday, EFCC’s first prosecution, Ogunjobi Olalekan, who is an officer of the commission, testified before the judge, J. K. Omotosho.
Nigerian anthropologists’ association elects new leaders
After-tax profit for the period climbed 131.6 per cent to N39.2 billion from N16.9 billion a year earlier.
“You will all agree with me that unfortunately from the time of Cabo, Okada, Harco, Chanchangi, Albarka, and the rest of them, about 60 of them went down the drain,” he noted.
Count one read: “That you, Alhaji Mamman Shuwa sometime in January 2021, at Maiduguri within the jurisdiction of this Honourable Court with intent to defraud did obtain the sum of N2, 000,000.00 (Two Million Naira) only from Alhaji Musa Abdullahi of Abuja Sheraton, Maiduguri under the pretence that the said amount represent payment for the purchase of a purported plot of land N0.
This is a special day in the history of our great country.
The NBC has come under criticism in the last few years over what is widely seen as its increasingly strangling restrictions on broadcast stations.
Mrs Ogala adjourned the case until 26 May for the commencement of trial.
The faction that met at Fraser Suites failed to get a committee to cause an upset against the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the speakership race.
Here are the complete lists of top trending searches reflecting the diverse interests of Nigerians during the first quarter of the year:
“I plead with you in good conscience to give us time before we can come with finality to your demand.
The youth group said that it would resist any plot to exclude members of the host community by mobilising for a protest that would ground operations at the oil fields if the policy was not reversed.
Mr Mimiko, who applauded the merits of the cashless economy, stated that while it tackles corruption and enhances digitisation of the economy, it should be continued and treated with a high level of importance.
Building on Ms Usman’s PhD thesis at the University of Oxford, the book uses data and theoretical frameworks to challenge received wisdoms about Nigeria’s economic trajectory.
They generated so much enthusiasm and excitement among our citizens who believed they would be a defining moment for our country.
The Chairman of the Committee, Olubunmi Tunji-Ojo (APC, Ondo), while responding to the comment made by the MD, said the committee will cooperate with the commission but that the budgets will not be passed without proper scrutiny.
While I congratulate those that have been elected, I acknowledge that it is the right of those who feel dissatisfied with the outcome to seek redress.
“This summit has come at a time when the vision of the federal government is articulated through the change approach and standard practice to be applied at every level of society, individual, family, and community management towards a pragmatic national development,” he said.
The Police Service Commission (PSC) has set up a committee to investigate a report published by an online medium that police officers pay up to $10,000 bribe to get promotion.
The Nigerian embassy instructed interested persons to converge at Al-Razi University and the International University of Africa, Madani Street on Saturday morning.
“But we can now save millions of lives each year from sickness and death caused by malaria following novel progress toward the disease’s elimination,” she said.
The court then ordered defendants to enter their defence.
Onyeke, filed an application seeking to remove his name from the charge on the grounds that he had been convicted of the same charge before Justice I.M.
Apart from the Mr Maikyau-headed Appointment and Remuneration Committee with only seven members, the membership of the rest of the 19 committees ranges from 36 to 51.
The Sokoto State Government has also converted the Shehu Shagari College of Education into a university.
And there is also Osita Izunaso, a ranking senator by virtue of previously serving in the Senate and the House of Representatives.
They added that the gruesome murder had traumatised the people and every right-thinking individual.
The statement was made available to journalists in Abuja by the Special Assistant to the President (Media), in the Office of the Minister, Segun Adeyemi.
“We urge residents to remain vigilant and go about their normal businesses as normalcy is being restored,” he said.
• Abdul Ningi Bauchi Central
Seplat Energy reacts to lawsuit as Nigerian Government alleges breach of immigration law
These victorious men and women have earned the trust of their people and I call on them to rededicate themselves to the service of their respective constituents.
Mr Ekwo, on Tuesday, also granted the motion moved by Mr Musa, seeking an order to amend their suit in another suit filed by the Rivers PDP Chairman, Desmond Akawo, against the party and its executives.
The loan comes with a commitment charge rate of 0.5 percent per year and a service charge of 0.75 percent per year on the withdrawn credit balance, as well as an interest charge of 1.25 percent per year on the withdrawn credit balance.
Instead, you zone to credibility, you zone to people.
That shouldn’t be.
The school also requested all photographs taken during the conduct of the autopsy, copies of any other working samples and documents made in the course of the autopsy, and the result of all toxicology tests conducted.
“There is also the need to agree to alternative measures that will be put in place to ensure that there is sufficient supply of petroleum products in the country,” the statement quoted Mrs Ahmed as saying.
The commission on 17 October 2022 inaugurated the project which according to its Executive Secretary, Tony Ojukwu, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria, was initiated to tackle voter apathy.
The cigarettes were seized at Heathrow Airport, London, in February 2020.
Another speakership aspirant, Miriam Onuoha, also appeared at the declaration alongside Mr Doguwa.
“In the entire South, Islam is a minority religion.
IPOB is a group leading the agitation for an independent state of Biafra, which it wants carved out from the South-east and some parts of the South-south.
This looks like a China truck and from my find the one that holds 12000 litres is about 80,000$.…
At the plenary, Mr Gyang said killings in his state are becoming worrisome, urging the Senate leadership to reinforce heavy security in the affected communities.
In a condolence statement by his Media Office signed by Tunde Rahman on Sunday, the President-elect said: “I received the news of the passing, on Sunday, of Prince Bola Ajibola, SAN at 89, with profound sadness.
“He used to come as often as he wants once he was in Monrovia.”
It was received by the Argentine ambassador in Nigeria, Alejandro Herrero, and Nigeria’s Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika.
Giwa Local Government is one of the most terrorised local council areas in Kaduna.
He wondered why politicians would be so desperate in a federal constituency election to the extent of shooting an innocent corps member.
He said he could not be made willy-nilly to defend any infraction allegedly committed in any of those states.
Why did they fail to remove us?”
A political party, Action Peoples Party (APP), has accused Bola Tinubu of manipulating the 25 February presidential election to clinch Nigeria’s presidency.
The arraignment on Tuesday was followed by several rulings by the court to remove obstacles to the trial.
“But it is sad to observe that even when the White Paper was released on the above subject matter, some people are thwarting the implementation of the recommendations of the White Paper,” he said.
CWG rose to N1.20, notching up 9.1 per cent in the process.
A spokesperson to Mr Akpabio, Jackson Udom, told PREMIUM TIMES, Friday, he was not aware of the EFCC’s invitation.
This is because the free flow of information is essential to the survival and growth of democracy.
Mr Oyetola also urged APC members, his supporters and those who voted for him in the election to accept the judgement as the will of God and move on.
Indeed, his first hundred days is nothing short of a miracle,” he added
The returnees are reportedly on board Tarco Airline and the aircraft being boarded is B737-300.
Key petitioners seeking to overturn Mr Tinubu’s victory include – the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar and the Labour Party’s Peter Obi who came second and third respectively at the polls.
Mr Mbang’s demise was announced in a statement on Wednesday by Babatunde Taiwo, a bishop and secretary of the Conference of the Methodist Church Nigeria.
Mr Sule said that the government had approved the allocation of all government houses to civil servants on owner- occupier basis.
– the conditions upon which he was released,
He emphasised that since the impersonator is still at large, the scenario is unimaginable as Peter Obi could be implicated in a series of forbidden acts and even be framed in a manner that could be a huge embarrassment to him, his family, his party, the Obedient movement, and Nigeria, where he currently and remains the conscience of the people.
For days, the cultists terrorised communities in the area, forcing businesses to close while some residents fled their homes because of shootout between rival gangs.
At the height of the uncertainty, many Nigerians encountered challenges doing business and making cash payments in their daily transactions.
Mr Dada described the case of a former governor of Delta state, James Ibori, whose case was dismissed by a Nigerian court but convicted by a court in London, as an embarrassment for the Nigerian judicial system.
Governor Chukwuma Soludo, while declaring the meeting open, said it was unfortunate that Anambra which was the second least state behind Lagos was losing land to erosion while Lagos was expanding into the ocean by reclamation.
Communication Probe: Reps panel receives 1,014 contract documents from NCC over USPF
Onuoha: Most of the challenges that came up at the time, which led to the disagreement between the Madam Speaker and members of the House, some of which are non-inclusion or not carrying members of the opposition parties along, as some of them have recounted to me.
Dorothy Ihedioha, mother of a former governor of Imo State, Emeka Ihedoha, is dead.
As part of efforts towards achieving a sustainable supply of feeds for animals in the country, the Nigerian government and other partners including the Centre for Journalism Innovation and Development (CJID), its sister organisation, PREMIUM TIMES, and a private consulting establishment- Sahel Consulting Agriculture and Nutrition Limited, are set to hold a summit on animal feed.
Organ Trafficking: Nigeria’s parliament asks UK judiciary to show mercy to Ekweremadu, wife
She told the BBC she had no involvement in the search and settlement for David Nwamini (Ukpo), who was trafficked to the UK to donate his kidney to her, as her family handled everything.
The presidency has called on politicians and residents of Osun State to support the governance of Ademola Adeleke as the authentic governor of the state.
The combined strength of the opposition is 163 seats— the PDP has 102 seats while LP and NNPP have 34 and 18 seats respectively.
PT: Are there people making a case for “lawyers”?
Mr Adamu added that the party would not interfere in any interest canvassed in choosing the persons to lead the two chambers of the assembly; whether it’s on zoning or individual interest.
Precious Williams, the Golden Eaglets’ skipper, is confident that the team can achieve their goals.
“CBN Governor Emefiele superintended over the management of the country’s financial and monetary systems.
Speaking to journalists after the meeting, Mr Kalu said the purpose of his visit was to officially welcome and felicitate with the president-elect on his return from a successful vacation in Europe.
Today, one of the surviving apostles of the Bole Ige political philosophy, a core Awoist and a major statesman in Oyo State, Chief Michael Koleoso, turns 85.
In the case of the latter, the issue of ranking will weigh against him.
At last year’s EU-AU summit, a recalibration of power dynamics was evident.
Prof. Z. I. Oboh Oseni
The Judge, Anass Khalifa, who confirmed the divorce between the couple, said the court would only listen to the complainant’s claims if she had witnesses.
JAMB extends 2023 direct entry registration
While Nigeria is ranked 4th position in the African firepower ranking, globally it was placed at the 36th positions out of the 145 countries considered for the annual global Firepower ranking review in 2023.
In addition, it said Lagos State had the highest number of active internet subscribers in Q4 2022 with 18,702,394, followed by Ogun with 9,206,614 and Kano with 8,470,131.
The Court of Appeal in Abuja dismissed the charges against the IPOB leader in a judgement last year, but later gave permission allowing SSS to continue detaining him, pending the federal government’s appeal at the Supreme Court.
It said, “… whilst 15 years was perhaps towards the upper end of the available sentencing range for this single offence, and other judges might have imposed a custodial period that was nearer to the starting point, we are not persuaded that the term that this experienced judge chose was wrong in principle nor that it was manifestly excessive.”
It is an insidious permutation that North East will be deprived in the face of the unsavoury generosity dispensed through two slots to a particular geo-political zone.
Mr Betara, who is in Mecca for the lesser hajj, met with some members-elect from Adamawa, Katsina, Kaduna, Gombe, Jigawa and Bauchi States.
The Governor of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has shown his support for Hilda Baci, a chef, as she attempts to break the Guinness World Record for the longest cooking time.
Mr Kanu’s transfer, the lawyer said, would enable separatist to get proper medical attention citing his deteriorating health in the custody of the State Security Service (SSS).
Others were the Companies and Allied Matters Act, 2020; Police Act 2020, Petroleum Industry Act 2021; Electoral Act 2022.
This, he said, was to ensure safety at all costs, adding that the road network must be designed in consideration of the vulnerable road users who were the most at risk in mind.
“His offending was not of a sadistic or cruel nature.
According to NEMA, 13 buses conveyed the first batch of the evacuees from Khartoum in Sudan to Aswan, Egypt from where they were to be airlifted to Nigeria.
Due to this, an atmosphere of fear is being created among the public, it seems that some people are deliberately creating such an atmosphere,” he added.
The Chairman of Edo State LP, Ogbaloi Kelly, said that the National Working Committee (NWC) is a subordinate organ to the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the party.
How to reverse a transaction?
He was kidnapped along Chachanji road near Agaraga village in Takum Local Government.
The Federal Executive Council (FEC) has approved a contract for the pavement of the Third Mainland Bridge in Lagos.
Two former soldiers of Sierra Leone’s Revolutionary United Front (RUF), have distanced an ex-commander of the group from a notorious name that has been a key issue of his war crimes trial.
I assure you that all your points are well noted”, he said.
Mr Bagudo said the election was contested by Muhammad Faruk of ADC; Abdullahi Danbaba, APC; Umar Rabiu, APGA and Umar Abubakar LP.
“Cloudy atmosphere with intervals of sunshine are envisaged over the North Central with chances of early morning thunderstorms over parts of Nasarawa, the Federal Capital Territory, Kogi, Niger and Kwara State.
The Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, briefed State House correspondents after the FEC meeting presided over by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on Wednesday at the Presidential Villa, Abuja.
“When my husband asked to see him (Mr Asadu), the police officers at the Awkuzu station started beating him,” the suspects’ mother, Victoria, told PREMIUM TIMES on Monday evening.
The major beneficiary of this push was the Labour Party, now able to call on eight senators and 35 representatives, despite previously having only one senator and no representatives.
We have sold all our landed properties to effect the release of our children, but to no avail,” she lamented.
He said the originating summons dated 28 February was filed by six states controlled by the PDP (2nd petitioner) against the Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF), INEC and others.
“You are releasing bullet on my own brother,” Ms Chiduebube was heard yelling at one of the officers in a mixture of Igbo and English languages.
Aside from the party, the Minister of State for Labour and Employment, Festus Keyamo, who is a Senior Advocate of Nigeria, also celebrated the illegality.
Mr Ogwo said the gunmen abducted his son with a commercial bus he boarded to school and that the abductors had contacted the family.
Today, corruption is thrust out in the open by Buhari’s landmark whistleblowing policy, empowering Nigerians to report it without fear and seeing the repatriation of hundreds of millions of dollars stolen by corrupt politicians and stashed in banks abroad.
Verdict: The president’s claim on the country’s firepower ranking is accurate.
Speaking further, Mrs Olusola said for the past week, since they withdrew the child from the school due to sexual molestation, the school had not contacted them.
“Finally, I would like to conclude by soliciting your cooperation, support and prayers to help the incoming administration in securing the future of our nation,” she said.
President Muhammadu Buhari rejoices with consummate businessman and philanthropist, Mike Adenuga, Jnr, on his 70th birthday, April 29, 2023, celebrating the entrepreneur, whose charity and goodwill continue to inspire, attracting local and global recognitions, including three national honours, OON, CON and GCON.
The force spokesperson said they were looking at many things to ensure that the barracks were rejuvenated, protected and maintained.
President Muhammadu Buhari will depart Abuja for Accra on Tuesday to attend the 3rd Extraordinary Session of the Assembly of Heads of State and Government of the Gulf of Guinea Commission (GGC).
The essence of the suit was to curtail the excessive executive powers of the government over the Nigerian people.
Most times—where I come from in Delta State, you cannot visit anybody that you are contesting without a bottle of wine,” he said.
King Charles III was crowned on Saturday in Britain’s biggest ceremonial event for seven decades, a sumptuous display of pageantry dating back 1,000 years.
This is necessary to prevent over-investment by candidates, which leads to acrimony and bitterness.
Mr Ari’s illegal declaration of result on Sunday had resulted in a controversy over the outcome of the elections.
The region is positioned for the two options — Speaker and Senate President.
“The proposed measures will bring respite to and improve the quality of living of our colleagues,” the statement read in part.
In Katsina State, no less than 1,730 bottles of codeine-based syrup were seized from a suspect, Bishir Sa’adu in Katsina metropolis on Sunday 9th April just as Muhamadu Yusuf was equally arrested the same day with 8,000 capsules of tramadol inside a commercial bus along Kano – Katsina road.
Others are Folashade Ogunrinde – TV360 Nigeria, Lagos, Bamas Victoria – International Centre for Investigative Reporting (ICIR), Abuja, Yemi Olus-Galadima – Making of Champions, Lagos, and Martha Asumata Agas – News Agency of Nigeria, Plateau, Olufisoye Adenitan of Federal Radio Corporation of Nigeria (FRCN), Ondo and Maryam Abdullahi of The Cable Newspaper, Niger.
This is true of any heterogeneous society or democracy.
Mr Yakubu, who was flanked by about a dozen of former lawmakers, urged the president-elect to review the arrangement or the region may be forced to consider other alternatives.
The action puts to rest a knotty labour dispute between Seplat Energy and a couple of its staff, which has blown out of proportion to involve the immigration service.
Beyond the impactful speeches at the launch were the more enduring recommendations of the publication that I played up as the reviewer.
“Sir, Parliamentary Staff Association of Nigeria (PASAN) as a National Umbrella of all workers working in all Houses of Assembly and their Commissions, always conduct background checks on activities on appointment process and procedures in conformity with Assembly Service Commission Laws and other extant regulations.
He had a Diploma in Theatre Arts and Film Production from Osun State Polytechnic in Iree where he graduated in 2001.
"The bandits were overpowered and escaped with various degrees of bullet injuries leaving behind their victims."
The ripple effect is evident in suspension of operations among airlines, increase in ticket fares, among others.
According to the prosecution, the alleged offences contravene Sections 260 (2) of the Criminal Laws of Lagos State, 2015.
Mbeka Tony, a Rivers State resident, fell into the hands of one of them, who had posed to be a representative of the United Bank for Africa (UBA) on Facebook.
I’m in danger.
“We presented two memoranda to the council; both were approved; the first is with regards to contract cost revision by way of augmentation for the old Enugu-Onitsha road from Opi junction to Udi-Oji to Anambra border in Enugu State.
“Malami has delivered well and we are very proud of him,” The Kebbi governor said.
While other states were given infrastructural loans, Benue under Governor Ortom was denied access to the funds.
The inauguration of the 10th House is scheduled for 13 June.
Cahill said that the money was unrelated to the gas dispute, while the government said that it was.“It was to facilitate a transfer from the bank which would not be made otherwise,” Cahill saidof his colleagues’ efforts.
Vanguard newspaper last month reported how three people were shot dead while the house of a former chairman of a local government area in Delta State, Wilson Omene, was set ablaze during the governorship and state assembly election in the state.
Truth is the APC’s victory in this election cannot be credibly denied.
It, therefore, issued an order, expunging the aspect of the judgment where Mr Oye’s name was reflected as the national chairman of the party.
The Minister of State for Budget and National Planning, Clem Agba, said FEC also approved the sum of N3.4 billion for the procurement of a surveillance aircraft for the use of the Nigerian Customs Service.
The Nigerian government Thursday took delivery of an air traffic control radar from Argentina.
According to him, other factors include poverty, heavy rainfall and gully erosion and lack of consideration for the environment in construction and urban planning.
The election produced Bola Tinubu, the candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), as Nigeria’s next president, extending the APC’s rule in Africa’s largest democracy.
Mr Owuru, a lawyer, vied for Nigeria’s presidency in 2019 on the platform of the HDP and lost to incumbent President Buhari.
Patrick Ndubueze, being a ranking member of the National Assembly, do desire to offer myself to contest the office of the Senate President of the 10th National Assembly strongly believing in my capacity to stand in the roles of the leadership required at this time.”
The action clears the air around speculations that emerged last week about a substantial share purchase by the energy magnate, the high point being a single-day trading of 1.6 billion shares last Tuesday.
Your responsibility for overseeing executive actions is not an invitation to conflict for its own sake.”
Although they did not name the two candidates rumoured to be involved in the bribery scheme, they suggested the two candidates are members of the APC.
The current Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo, and Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila are also both from the same region – South-west.
On 10 June 2022, EFCC accused him of disregarding the court’s order by travelling to Dubai with a new international passport.
The same could not be said today,” Mr Lukman said in a recent statement.
According to the latest NCDC situation report, in 2023, Nigeria recorded 144 deaths with a case fatality rate (CFR) of 17.5 per cent as of 26 March 2023.
Referred to as ‘Obidients’, Mr Obi’s supporters have been at loggerheads with Mr Soyinka over his comment describing the “Obidients” movement as a threat to the judiciary.
They should have facilities for testing the materials they are receiving, she said.
“The first major infrastructure project attempted by the NCC in this regard was the Emergency Response System (ERS), which led to the construction of Emergency Communications Centres all over the country, with little or no results, despite the fact that the contract was awarded in millions of US dollars with annual fiscal appropriations for the said project.”
Peak Milk Apologises Over ‘Offensive’ Good Friday Advert
The debtor runs a local brothel and is said to be connected to the police authorities in the area.
Dr Nana obtained a bachelor’s degree in mass communication from the University of Nigeria, Nsukka, as well as a master’s and a doctorate in the same discipline from the University of Uyo.
That Obi did not win the election does not make Nigeria’s democracy hollow.
He walked up to the man who was still groaning in pain, and just said ‘sorry, bye bye’.
And the party itself has lent a lot of support to women, you know.
“We need a pan-Nigerian who has been tested and trusted, proven worthy of integrity, character and prudent management.
Senate President Ahmad Lawan announced Mr Ekweremadu’s birthday at the plenary session on Tuesday.
Kidnapped Kaduna students escaped from abductors – Official
Some of the students told PREMIUM TIMES at the Dutse Airport on Monday, after arriving from Sudan, that they were about to complete their medical courses when the clashes broke out.
Fuel Subsidy: Nigerian govt secures $800 million World Bank facility
The government had said the airlift could not be done from Sudan to the violence in that country.
“The lab demonstrates the implications and effects of climate change on animal and crop yield and finds sustainable solutions to farmers’ problems.
On Wednesday, a Federal High Court in Abuja nullified all the Ward and Local Government congresses conducted by the party.
“I actually committed the act but I don’t know how I did it.
While acknowledging receipt of the letter, Mr Gbillah said the AGF must provide a comprehensive report to support the work of the committee.
As things stand, there are still several aspirants in the race for the speakership but it’s unclear if they will agree to step down.
“We have visited a couple of the Obas (Alake of Egba in Ogun, Shehu of Borno, among others), and the idea is to engage the border communities to make them know they have a stake in securing these borders.
Speaking on the alliance, Mr Betara said the selection of a consensus candidate must be done in consultation with all members.
He said it was actually the contractor handling the renovation of Eagle Square, Messrs Julius Berger that informed the Transition Committee for the handover ceremony.
After killing Mr Yahaya, the attackers kidnapped his daughter and collected a ransom of N1.5 million before releasing her.
But at N1.2billion per truck, are we going after hell fire or fire on the mountain?
After the burial of Mr Ajibola, Mr Osinbajo recalled his days with the legal luminary.
With this development, the coast is clear for Mr Diri to seek a second tenure.
The petitioner further contended that the Court of Appeal’s adoption of virtual hearing and electronic filing permits the President Election Petition Court to transmit its proceedings live.
AI software is sometimes used to distort public figures like the one of Mr Zelensky.
• Osita Bonaventure Izunaso – Imo West
The Foundation will collaborate with the Federal Government and Air Peace in ensuring seamless transportation of the stranded Nigerians, it said
Nigerian govt makes U-turn, approves Eagle Square for May Day parade
“We believe that it is better to wait for them to finish that project, and then complete the remaining nine kilometres, instead of building it now and then having them cut it up again.”
The matter, which is on number 26 on the cause list, will be presided over by the judge, Inyang Ekwo.
The event was also graced by the President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, members of the federal executive council, traditional rulers, services chiefs and members of the diplomatic community.
This week Nigerian human rights lawyer and activist Chidi Odinkalu rebuked the ICC for being so focused on Ukraine that it was neglecting the violence in Sudan – including Darfur, ‘a location under active ICC consideration.’ It was in Darfur, of course, that atrocities were committed almost 20 years ago for which Mr al-Bashir was indicted.
It also provided a link for the transfer for interested students to fill and attach the required documents between May and June in order to join the 2023/2024 academic session commencing in September.
Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State has ordered the demolition of three two-storey buildings in Banana Island following the collapse of a seven-storey building in the area.
And very unfortunately, the former minister of Niger Delta Affairs, I am not afraid to say this, instigated some guys, some of his supporters, and they went and forged the result of the congresses and used it to deceive the court to obtain an order.
We gave him the licence.
It added that medium-term debt sustainability will require well-timed fiscal consolidation but also debt restructuring in some cases.
“Even as we grew into our 20s, Eyo became audacious in stealing and more notorious, he was always caught stealing, this is not the first time a mob action was carried out on him, he only met his end today.
Other aspirants for senate president who have met with Mr Tinubu include Godswill Akpabio and Jibrin Barau.
Let’s do it.✍🏾✍🏾 https://t.co/ZVh67ePFhi
Mr Isa advised that going forward, “we need to be very careful about the core structures of these loans.’’
The police on Tuesday said they have arrested two suspects who allegedly stoned a 35-year-old man, Tope Olorunfemi, to death in Akure, Ondo State.
“The theory that helped me, which should also help you, is to regard public duties or services as your personal business,’’ he said.
Here, PREMIUM TIMES presents a list of the trending crossover Fuji musicians.
As doctors under the aegis of the National Association of Resident Doctors (NARD) commenced a five-day warning strike on Wednesday, skeletal health services were provided in some of the tertiary hospitals visited by PREMIUM TIMES.
Mr Abure arrived at court shortly after the altercation was brought under control.
“Starting from the recruitment, those we believe are to help us screen the people still betray the people,” he said.
Responding, Wole Olanipekun, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria, said that as lawyers, they were bound by the law and would adhere strictly to the rule of law throughout the proceedings.
He said the senators-elects from the region would meet to decide on picking a candidate for the position ahead of the inauguration of the 10th Senate in June.
Dr Babatunde Ajibade, SAN – CHAIRMAN
Are you aware of that?” Nigeria’s lawyer asked Murray.
“What am I going to do with the refinery, am I going to carry it on my head?” he said the crowd which came out to witness the commissioning.
There are 73,461 elegible voters in the 133 affected polling units where the rerun is taking place.
The bank had on 6 December announced its plans to redesign the naira notes as part of efforts to check inflation, counterfeiting and corruption.
“Cloudy atmosphere with intervals of sunshine is anticipated over the North Central region with prospects of thunderstorms over parts of the Federal Capital Territory, Nasarawa, and Plateau state during the afternoon and evening hours.
Mr Apapa attended the court’s proceedings on Wednesday, where the Labour Party and its presidential candidate, Peter Obi, are challenging the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Bola Tinubu’s victory as Nigeria’s president-elect.
Gwacham Chinwe (APGA) and Idris Salman (ADC) are also members of the committee
The panel members went on a short break after the ceremonial opening of the court and retuned to begin hearing AA’s case.
11:36am: Peter Abang announces appearance for Action Peoples Party (APP)
“The court requires an individual to stand trial, not to ‘sit down trial’, ‘lie down trial’ or ‘prostrate trial’, which means that Kanu, with his state of health, cannot stand trial,” the lawyer added.
Mr Lukman further stated that the national chairman has betrayed the trust of Mr Buhari, who nominated him for the position.
The media team of the Presidential Campaign Council of the APC has embarked on an international media tour to defend the outcome of the 2023 presidential election won by its candidate, Bola Tinubu.
The petitioners claimed there was rigging in 11 states, adding that they would demonstrate this in the declaration of results based on the uploaded results.
The party, on its Twitter page, congratulated Mrs Binani.
A Dorothy Killam Fellow is a leading researcher whose superior, ground-breaking, best-in-class research stands to have a significant impact on a national or global scale.
Like her West-African counterpart- Ghana, Nigeria on Monday made history with the approval granted a new malaria vaccine- R21/Matrix-M, which has been developed by the University of Oxford and manufactured by the Serum Institute of India.
The Nigerian Army 27 Task Force Brigade fighting the insurgents, stationed in the Buni Gari, recovered the corpses of the victims in a bush on Friday morning.
Wasiu Alabi, aka Pasuma, might be crowned the cross-over king.
“Later in the day, thunderstorms are anticipated over parts of the Federal Capital Territory, Nasarawa, Kogi, Niger and Plateau.
Taiwo Akande Adebisi, popularly known as Taye Currency, a renowned Ibadan-based Fuji music, was among the first musicians to adopt afrobeats infusion into his music style.
Egypt finally opens border to Nigerian evacuees from Sudan
Apt Securities and Funds Limited midwifed the purchase of 105.5 million shares, temporarily raising Mr Otedola’s holding to 5.8 per cent from the original stake of 2.2 billion (5.5 per cent), declared to the Nigerian Exchange on Thursday.
And I charge you to unite in spirit and faith and work in line with the party," he said.
On his part, the minister said considering where INEC was coming from and where it were today, there were massive improvements in the conduct of the 2023 polls.
Three dead, thousands evacuated in Italy flooding
Mr Obi was one of the 18 candidates in Nigeria’s recent presidential election in which he came third.
He will be competing against Deputy Speaker Idris Wase (APC, Plateau), Yusuf Gagdi (APC, Plateau), Muktar Betara (APC, Borno), Sada Soli (APC, Katsina), Muktar Betara (APC, Borno) Tunji Olawuyi (APC, Kwara) and Abubakar Makki (APC, Jigawa) who have all declared interest.
She felt it was in his interest at that time to appoint someone from Rivers State because the Rivers political space was very disadvantaged.
Justice Tsoho, while delivering a speech at a special court session to mark the commencement of the court’s 2022/2023 Legal Year on 12 December 2022, said in response to the enormous time-bound responsibility by the new Electoral Act, he constituted a special task force of judges for the swift disposal of pre-election matters.
He said they are also a low-maintenance hybrid variety of goats and sheep from indigenous breeds.
“This is a thumbs up to the organiser of the programme and I encourage them to keep up the good work,” she said.
The existing dichotomy between university and polytechnic graduates has also worsened the situation as polytechnic graduates are made to face hurdles that their university counterparts would not face in their civil service career.
According to Master Edwin-Isotu’s tutor, Evans Kingsley, he is optimistic that the boy will do Rivers State proud at the National Finals and beyond.
The big question that will shape how these ‘third parties’ fare during this term, and if we begin using the term ‘fourth or fifth’ parties in the future, might be how effective they are in keeping the momentum that led to such a promising performance this time round.
“It is noteworthy to state that the command also recorded significant achievements in infrastructure development across all the bases and establishments under the command,” he said.
The 29 suspects, Mr Macdon said, were arraigned after “diligent screening” adding that they were among the 65 arrested in connection with cult clashes within communities along Nwaniba Road, a major road in the state that lead to the permanent campus of the University of Uyo and a five-star hotel, Ibom Hotel and Golf resort.
Consequently, the court dismissed the terrorism charges filed against Mr Kanu before Binta Nyako of the Federal High Court in Abuja.
Residents awoke to sporadic shooting across the town on Monday morning, forcing shop owners and early arrivals at markets to shut down their businesses.
“Frantic investigating efforts are on top gear to arrest other syndicate members at large and make them face the wrath of the law,” the police spokesperson said.
INEC will conduct the governorship election in the state on 11 November.
The margin dilution, which Unilever Nigeria said its homecare and skin-cleansing businesses triggered in its overall financial performance, was a major factor that kept profit margin low.
Fire trucks don’t work well without direct source of water which we don’t have in most places.
Thugs suspected to be enforcers of land grabbers shot a police officer to death and severely injured three others on Friday in the Ikorodu area of Lagos State, the police confirmed on Monday.
The court, which held its inaugural sitting Monday, adjourned the hearing of Mr Obi’s petition and Atiku’s application for a live broadcast of proceedings until Wednesday.
“I urge the security agencies to ensure that this murder and previous attacks that are yet to be resolved in the state are treated with utmost urgency.
Meanwhile, the trio of Anambra, Cross River and Edo had a 24 per cent turnout performance.
NAN reports that based on provisions of the law, a respondent has within 21 days to reply to a petition after a service.
However, according to the electoral law, the announcement should have been made by the returning officer of the election, who is a different person, usually an academic appointed by INEC for that purpose.
The women, who protested at the entrance of the Governor’s Office in Calabar, had placards with inscriptions such as “pay us our money,” “we are tired of working without pay”.
President-elect, Bola Tinubu, on Saturday sent a congratulatory message to the newly coronated King of the United Kingdom, King Charles lll, and called for stronger ties between Nigeria and the UK.
The inauguration of the 10th Assembly is scheduled for 13 June.
A thorough search of the suspect’s two black bags, according to a statement released on Sunday by the agency’s director of media and advocacy, Femi Babafemi, led to the discovery of 4.80 kilograms of cannabis concealed in three winter jackets and various quantities of Tramadol, Rohypnol, Ecstasy (Designer drug) hidden in bottles of body lotion.
Mr Buhari also seeks the confirmation of the nomination of six federal commissioners for the Revenue Mobilisation Allocation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC).
You can ask stand-up comedians.
Incumbent Governor Ahmadu Fintiri was leading Mrs Binani by over 30,000 votes before the election was declared inconclusive.
A parent seen waiting for her son, Fatima Lawal, said she brought the son to the centre almost an hour before 9 a.m. when he was scheduled to take the test.
The ministries also provided an update on the first batch of Nigerian evacuees who departed Sudan on Wednesday but are yet to arrive in Nigeria.
The House of Representatives has condemned the alleged plan by some politicians to orchestrate the setting up of an interim national government.
He said the guy was pretending so that he would not fix the broken mirror.
Top trending song searches from January to March 2023
”The subject matter from the suit is the list of the delegates to be used for the PDP Kogi primary on 14 April.
Angela Quintal, CPJ’s Africa program coordinator, from New York, quoted in the organisation’s statement also condemned the method of bringing the journalists to custody.
Usman-Ododo emerges APC governorship candidate in Kogi
The court also sentenced Mr Ekweremadu's wife, Beatrice, to four years and six months in prison
“Defence 20,” Tuesday’s other defense witness, was praiseful of Mr Massaquoi for his service to the RUF.
98 of 109 Senate seats have so far been declared.
Tedros Ghebreyesus, the WHO Director-General, said this during an online media conference.
In his opening remarks, TheCable Editor, Kolapo Olapoju, said apart from amplifying the struggles of PWDs, “it is high time media professionals and organisations began to enable them access news with ease and at their own pace.”
The Inspector General of Police, Usman Baba, has ordered the removal of the Commissioner of Police on election duty in Adamawa State, Mohammed Barde, over his alleged role in the illegal declaration of the APC candidate, Aisha Dahiru, as the winner of the state governorship election on Sunday.
“In the past three years, our government has embarked on several infrastructural projects and made the welfare of civil servants a priority.
Mr Ismail noted that the adjournment was at the instance of the defence counsel who was absent, citing a matter he had at the election tribunal.
Mr Tinubu’s connection to Guinea has become the latest controversy trailing him.
When is the deadline for old naira notes?
Total votes in Niger was 873,020; Oyo, 866,427; Sokoto, 864,419; Adamawa.
Aside from the Monday sit-at-home, the IPOB factional leader has been declaring sit-at-home in the region via his social media handles, mainly Twitter.
Speaking on actions institutions need to take to ensure inclusion, Mr Ojo stated that INEC could start with the implementation of the Act by ensuring that five per cent of ad hoc staff deployed for election duties are PWDs.
Ms Bello said that Nigeria was faced with a gender learning crisis as 60 per cent of the out-of-school children were girls and less than 30 per cent of primary school girls transit to secondary school.
Tochukwu Ikenga, the spokesperson of the police in the state, only said the corps member was “positively identified/mentioned” in an ongoing investigation by the police in Anambra State.
We are not challenging the government, we are fighting for what will be of benefit to Nigeria, so this is a sacrifice from us to Nigerians, we want you to come to the hospital and get adequate treatment with good facilities,” he said.
Touchpad stopped working and keypad was unresponsive.
“For instance, if the Senate President is to come from the South-East, he would certainly be a Christian.
Mr Umahi made the declaration while swearing in new permanent secretaries and members of the state’s Public Complaints and Anti-Corruption Commission.
Party no dey stop – Adekunle Gold and Zinoleesky
Nigeria’s leading investigative and pro-democracy newspaper, PREMIUM TIMES, has reconstituted its ombudsman board, six years after the oversight organ was first created.
• Sahabi Ya’u – Zamfara North
As state and local government workers in Zamfara State mark this year’s May Day, they have not been paid for three months.
It will be held from 10 November to 2 December in a yet-to-be-decided venue (initially Peru).
There were many inconsistencies in his evidence, both internally within the evidence given at the hearing and externally when compared with evidence provided previously in witness statements and in documentary correspondence with HMRC.
“The arrested suspects were interrogated and they made useful statements confessing to the crime.
Mr Obi told the Presidential Election Petition Court that INEC denied him access to electoral documents in some states.
APM is in his petition urging the court to void “all the votes scored” by Mr Tinubu in the presidential election in view of his non-qualification as a candidate of” the APC.
The arrangement leaves the North-west with the potential of having two presiding officers, while the North-central zone is left out.
But, Mr Sirika while reacting to the Senate’s directive on Wednesday, insisted that the ministry will go ahead with the demolition because the directive did not come from a court and that government cannot be stopped from giving development to its people.
Mr Wike, a member of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), after falling out with his party’s presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, had thrown his weight behind Mr Tinubu.
“Set examinations for yourselves on performance because Ebonyi should not be your limits in exposure and proficiency.
Some of the awards presented at the event which was highlighted by music and dance performances included the Most Improved Agencies for 2022 Executive Order 01 Compliance, which was won by the Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission (NIPC).
The outcome of the research titled: “Unlocking the Potentials of Indigenous Goats and Sheep Using Climate Smart Agriculture Innovations,” is a specially bred “FUTASA goats and sheep,” it said.
Mr Ajaero also called for a general review of core civil servants’ salaries to narrow the gap in other civil servants’ emoluments and those in other segments of the public service.
In a swift intervention, Mrs Ebenebe said the integrated farming system is the right way to go in order to curb the emission of greenhouse gases as a result of agricultural activities in the environment.
Transcorp, which announced two years ago plans to broaden its energy mix by setting up Nigeria’s first nuclear plant, increased its investment in property, plant and equipment eight times over in the quarter under review.
“I must also thank the commandant for his relentless support and guidance,” he added.
“Don’t bully me.
• Abdulhamid Madori Ahmed – Jigawa North East
Inyang Ekwo, a judge at the Federal High Court, Abuja, gave the order of final forfeiture while ruling on a motion by the EFCC, seeking a final forfeiture of the properties which are “reasonably suspected to be proceeds of unlawful activities of Kano State Pension Fund Trustees”.
The price-to-earnings (PE) ratio of the financial services group at the end of the last trading session was 2x, while its earnings per share (EPS) was N4.86.
He attended the Trinity Theological College, Umuahia, in Abia State, for pastoral training.
Nigeria’s ruling party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), celebrated the illegal declaration of its Adamawa State governorship candidate, Aisha Dahiru, as “governor-elect”.
The nation’s electoral body, INEC, had on 1 March, declared the former Lagos State governor winner of the 25 February presidential election.
“Nigerians witnessed the worst campaign since 1999 when democracy was restored in the country.
The youth forum will enable young people to share their recommendations and innovative ideas in preparation for the SDG Summit, to be held under the auspices of the General Assembly, in September 2023.
President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday in Abuja swore in six new permanent secretaries before the commencement of the weekly meeting of the Federal Executive Council (FEC).
“It is worth mentioning that the sum of N407.5 million were denied the oil thieves,” he added.
Apparently, there was no election,’’ he said.
Mr Adeleye was, until his latest appointment, the Director, Exams and Records at the university.
Mr Sirika assured Nigerians that the indigenous airline will be established and the incumbent government has no choice but to run with it.
Justice Boloukuoromo Moses Ugo, one of the judges sitting at Nigeria’s Presidential Election Petition.
While there had been a number of legal arguments put forward prior to the hearing, the document showed that the parties had, by the time of the hearing, agreed that the core question to decide was whether Mr Fagbewesa was the owner of the cigarettes that were seized.
He said as a columnist, Mr Enahoro used his pen patriotically, calling attention to the salient issues in society.
People are afraid and some of them have started leaving the community.
The police in Oyo State have arrested seven persons suspected to be involved in a clash in which an officer was killed in Ibadan, the state capital.
The appellant had appealed against the decision of the election petition tribunal dismissing his request to restrain INEC from conducting a re-run in Doguwa's federal constituency.
Transcorp’s shares gained 78.8 per cent in the nine days between then and Thursday.
Mr Martins said the YPP National Working Committee (NWC) held its 22nd meeting and made certain resolutions after extensive deliberations.
“There are apprehensions in the public space, having regards to the reputation of certain individuals within the highest level of the APC who have demonstrated capacity and proclivity to compromise democratic institutions in our country.
Shortly after the incident, the couple filed for divorce.
There are several reasons why opposition political parties lost the 2023 election; the first is that the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC snubbed the electoral act wherein it failed to upload the result from the polling unit in real time as promised and in disregard to the laws guiding the election.
“The Notice of Withdrawal/Discontinuance of the action dated 6 April 2023, was issued by the Director Legal Services of the Nigeria Immigration Service and stated in part that “the Claimant hereby discontinues all the proceedings in this charge against the above-named Defendants,” said Seplat Energy in a statement on Thursday seen by PREMIUM TIMES.
• Kaka Shehu Lawan – Borno Central
“This is inconceivable considering that America, as the bastion of democracy, is well briefed on the sham election of February 25.
“Aid workers are neutral and should never be a target.
Don’t throw me on the mercy of sadists like Emefiele.”
I am leading by example in the spirit of reciprocity.
He is the one who initiated and implemented the recent disastrous Naira swap policy, the Naira confiscation program, which put Nigerians through untold woes and trauma and set our economy backwards.
In Gudu/ Tangaza Federal Constituency Prof Muazu Shamaki, the returning officer declared Alhaji Sani Yakubu of the APC as the winner with 23,473 votes.
“The government issued a document to ensure public safety and order.
The CP, Mohammed Barde, and other security chiefs were present at the collation centre when the INEC Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in the state, Hudu Ari, declared Mrs Dahiru, popularly called Binani, as winner of the governorship poll.
The police warned loan agencies to stop taking laws into their hands in the process of recovering loans from their debtors.
“So, I decided that I had to tell that story rather than keep quiet and be fingered as the person who looted the NPA.
There was also an attempt to conceal his offence through text messages sent to his wife, the court said.
To achieve that vision, they agreed to set up a new organisation.
In his remarks, Mr Abbas assured the president-elect that the 10th House will have a “harmonious relationship” with the executive.
The organisation explained that the frequency 700-800MHz, housing some state government-owned and private stations, have been sold to telecom operators, a decision that has created problems that have not been resolved.
The Federal High Court, Abuja, is set to hear an application by the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate in Adamawa State, Aisha Dahiru, popularly called Binani, over the declaration of the results of the governorship election in the state, on Tuesday.
(a) subject to the provisions of section 28 of this Constitution, he has voluntarily acquired the citizenship of a country other than Nigeria or, except in such cases as may be prescribed by the National Assembly, he has made a declaration of allegiance to such other country.”
Mr Uzoukwu said the court’s decision would deepen Nigeria’s election jurisprudence.
The Egyptian government initially denied the evacuees entry into Egypt due to a lack of entry visas.
He defeated 17 other candidates, including Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Peter Obi of the Labour Party (LP).
All four species of pangolin on the continent inhabit the forests of Central Africa and are classified as endangered or vulnerable.
The Ways and Means advances, which the Senate has securitised, and awaiting concurrent securitisation by the House of Representatives, are included in the country’s public debt stock.
Mr Tinubu, candidate of the APC in the February presidential election, was declared the winner of the election in Rivers State based on the results released by the INEC despite the state government being controlled by the PDP.
After experiencing a dispensing error of N21,000 from a POS stand, he took to Twitter to express his ordeal, as many do.
Since Mr Soyinka’s comments, the Obidients have disparaged him on social media.
In a video clip posted, Tuesday, on the verified Facebook page of the NLC Headquarters in Abuja, several chairs, canopies and other materials, apparently brought for the workers’ celebration, were scattered.
The federal government received N30.404 billion, the state governments received N101.347 billion and the local government councils received N70.943 billion from the N202.693 billion distributable Value Added Tax (VAT) revenue.
In a statement on Tuesday, the spokesperson of APC in the state, Darlington Nwauju, described the visit as private and on the invitation of Governor Wike.
He maintained that going forward, students will be expected to wear their faculty uniforms from Tuesdays to Fridays, pointing out that the directive follows the approval for students to wear cultural attires on Fridays.
“You can see that the original line for Banana Island is even not where we are.
INEC has not responded to the allegation.
“No one was surprised when, by the morning of the 26 February, social media became flooded with evidence of irregularities.
Despite fiscal constraints, Central African governments’ budgetary allocations to police, customs, forest guards and prosecution services should reflect their commitment to stopping the trade.
Senate investigates delay on issuance, renewal of international passport
“Gibril Massaquoi was the most educated man in the revolution,” said Defence 20.
He alleged that the APC’s desire is to truncate Mr Ortom’s administration before the handover date.
In reaction, the school noted in a statement that the 12-year-old “slumped in public view and not under any hidden circumstances.”
Another popular Islamic leader in the city who spoke with PREMIUM TIMES, Abdulmajeed Alawaye, appealed to the governor to make the announcement.
“Our anti kidnapping squad are already after them, we are combing the forests and we know that they will all be arrested.
Mr Tinubu stated this on Wednesday in Port Harcourt while commissioning a Flyover in the state.
The community is appealing to Governor Ugwuanyi to intervene in the matter.
“We must get back to working on Mondays.
Speaking to PREMIUM TIMES on the phone, the new Commissioner of Police (CP), who claimed to have assumed office a few days ago, Mua Garba, said he did not know much information about the matter.
Reacting to the incident, Mrs Buhari, who doubles as the President of African First Ladies Peace Mission said: “another humanitarian window has been exposed with the sudden eruption of violence in Sudan.
It is trite to aver, that, it stands logic on the head that one geo-political zone, Northwest in this regard, will be favoured with two presiding officers positions out of four while North Central suffers the consequences for its innocence and shrewd loyalty by having none.
“She cried about her vagina pains when she went to urinate on Sunday, 30 April; then we saw bruises when we checked with a touch light.
We may not be authorities on everything but we should be knowledgeable about everything.”
“Just as predicted by IPOB leadership, Nigeria security agents, infiltrators and government agents hijacked it and used it to torment our people and rubbish IPOB’s name in Biafra Land and other countries,” he added.
When such officers see people in air-conditioned cars, there may be anger that they have been neglected by the state.
The donation of the peafowls by the National Park Service of Nigeria is regarded as an endorsement of the BPC’s conservation work in Nigeria.
PREMIUM TIMES reported how the police in Kano arrested and charged the House leader, alongside others, for alleged criminal conspiracy, and culpable homicide.
Earlier this year, concerned parties petitioned Rauf Aregbesola, Nigeria’s minister of interior, stating allegations of favouritism, racism, discrimination and breach of corporate governance against Mr Brown, a British citizen.
A text of the conference was made available to PREMIUM TIMES.
“As I said before, you have the option to go.
Now, for the women of Nigeria, please go ye forth and conquer!” Mr Keyamo, an APC presidential camapaign spokesperson wrote.
On 8 February 2023, MSF withdrew from the country, following an attack in which two of their staff members were killed.
Objective: undermine the structure of justice .Just as a reminder: this writer was not being rhetorical when he declared, on exiting prison detention: Justice is the first condition of humanity.
Rafael Leao returned to the starting lineup alongside Malixk Thiaw and Junior Messias with Saelemaekers and Kjaer dropped to the bench.
However, INEC headquarters in Abuja declared the REC’s action null and void and suspended the collation of the results.
Arinze was arraigned on March 22, 2023, before Justice Omotosho, on five count charges bordering on obtaining by false pretence and money laundering to the tune of $769,263 (Seven Hundred and Sixty Nine Thousand, Two Hundred and Sixty Three United States Dollars).
The space titled: How should 10th National Assembly Leadership be zoned?
Other memoranda approved by council for the ministry, according to him, included the augmentation of 48 kilometers Kaduna Eastern bypass contracts connecting Kaduna to about 11 states in the country, from N38bilion to N78.6billion
It said resources such as mental health first aid and other basic assistance and support at the primary level will also serve as a preventive healthcare function for those at the grassroots.
He said the meeting was also used to draw from the experiences of the retired officers who had at various times piloted the affairs of the force and PSC.
The ruling party, APC, won the presidential election, defeating the two main opposition parties, PDP and Labour Party.
The panel adjourned for judgement shortly after all counsel adopted and argued their briefs of argument in the appeal.
In recognition of his leadership, the Methodist Church Nigeria named one of its dioceses Mbang’s Cathedral in Eket, Akwa Ibom State, in his honour.
The suspect, Chinyere Ifesinachi, was said to have used a pestle and other materials to inflict injuries on the girl.
“The attention of the leadership of the Senate and indeed the National Assembly has been drawn to different groups laying claims to the Bill for an Act to establish the Nigerian Peace Corps which was harmonised and adopted by the two Chambers of the National Assembly.
After the court heard three out of the five petitions against Mr Tinubu, it adjourned until Tuesday, 9 May, to hear Mr Atiku’s petition.
The Court of Appeal noted that Mr Oyetola and the APC “did not tender the voter registers and Bimodal Voters Accreditation System (BVAS machines,” which captured data of eligible voters at the Osun governorship election.
Apart from attacks on security agencies and their facilities, several other persons – mainly government officials – have been abducted and killed.
Defence Headquarters says troops of the armed forces have in the last two weeks eliminated 30 terrorists and bandits and apprehended 48 in various operations across the North-central and North-west.
Mr Buhari signed the Mental Health Bill 2021 into law in January after two failed attempts at overhaul in 2003 and 2013.
“One of the reliefs sought is a “Declaration that the national officers of APGA, including the Plaintiff, who were elected at its national convention held in Owerri, Imo State on May 31, 2019, shall remain in office and discharge their respective duties for a term of four years commencing from May 31, 2021.”
Mr Osinbajo noted that PEBEC “has achieved the delivery of over 180 reforms and completed 7 National Action Plans geared towards improving the Nigerian business environment.
President Buhari is billed to participate in the Summit which will deliberate on the Future of the Commonwealth and the Role of the Youth.
Negotiations are still ongoing for the release of the remaining seven students.
Other sources, who corroborated the director, said Ms Umar had demonstrated shocking disregard for the superior Ministry of Trade and Investment.
“These are the men who slapped a man on the road in Rivers.
It is the single most shocking and dramatic event in human history.
Let’s do it.”
The clash is mainly within some communities around Nwaniba Road which is notorious for cult-related killings and violence in Uyo.
He requested that the statement by Mr Abure be shared with him, which our reporter did forward to him but he had responded as of the time of filling this report.
Mr Hassan announced that pilgrims from the south-south and south-east states will pay N2,968,000.00
According to BBYDI, the forum is scheduled to take place in New York, United States of America between Tuesday (today) and Thursday, 27 April.
“In this election, assumptions about electoral performance based on historical antecedents proved nought.
My other Macbook had liquid damage & the touchpad wasn’t working well.
Mr Ajibola was Nigeria's former Attorney-General and Minister of Justice in the military administration of Ibrahim Badamosi Babangida.
The APC governors, in a recent memo sent to Mr Tinubu, said the party should consider the South-south and South-east as preferred zones for the senate presidency, while the speaker should be left for North-west and North-central.
In his welcome address, the Director of Community Health Services, NPHCDA, Chris Elemuwa, said the project was designed to strengthen the demand for PHC services and that it has achieved that goal in more ways than one.
“We looked at some internal and domestic housekeeping matters with a colleague that you know who has expressed his concerns about something he believes the party should be doing.
The EFCC further argued that the lower court erred in law when it held that the provisions of Section 1 of the Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act, 2004 and 2011, only applied to natural persons and corporate bodies other than the government.
He said the DSS, however, averred that the hospital was sufficiently capable of handling the medical condition of the defendant and that it was able and willing to take responsibility for the treatment of Mr Mamu.
Former Governor of Akwa Ibom State, Godswill Akpabio, has paid a courtesy visit to the Ooni of Ife, Adeyeye Ogunwusi.
God will reward your leadership in this country.”
“Cost of electricity in Nigeria is the cheapest across the globe, particularly gas to power, which is highly subsidised,” he said.
The governor said that he diligently understudied the Israelis and it helped him to attain engineering proficiency.
After the arraignment, counsel to the EFCC, Kingsley Kudus, asked the court to remand the defendants at the Olokuta Correctional Facility, even though they had pleaded not guilty.
The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) in Ebonyi State has confirmed the death of 12 passengers in a road accident on Tuesday.
When PREMIUM TIMES called the JAMB spokesperson, he said he could not comment on the lingering issue.
“I think it is time for us to take stock and find out why we are receding and how we can ensure that our prominent position as the leading political party in this country, as the oldest political party in this country, we regain our position.
They promised to continue to work for the betterment of their people and remain loyal to the president.
Mr Habuba – Yamkam said he learnt security agencies have been sent to the affected areas.
“We reiterate to the parties to the conflict that they must respect international law,” he said.
He said individuals could adopt some of the special students or volunteer to fix facilities in their homes and schools to complement the government’s efforts.
The names of all the parties connected to the case and the part of London where the crime was allegedly committed were not given in the court judgement, a copy of which was obtained by PREMIUM TIMES.
The PSC chairman said synergy between the two organisations would also ensure greater results and success in their operations.
They have the right to strike.
Also, the electoral law states that the winner of an election should be declared by the returning officer who is usually an academic appointed by INEC.
In 2019, the region backed the Gbajabiamila/Wase ticket for the speakership, despite Umar Bago contesting for Speaker on the “North Central Agenda”.
“It was unveiled and launched on Nov. 28, 2019,’’ Mr Pantami said,
The committee is to investigate the financial activities of NDDC in the 2021 and 2022 budget estimates and report back in one week.
EFCC’s counsel, Mr Uket, said he was not aware of the move by the AGF office to take over the case.
Violence and ethnic profiling.
For a couple of years, the NDDC had no board until this January.
“Immediate commencement of payment of all salary arrears owed our members by the various state governments, notorious amongst which is the Abia State government.”
Akwa Ibom community suffers hardship after youths vandalised banks
I can wear my uniform to any gathering or a party if permitted to know how much I value the uniform,” he said.
“For those reasons, there is a compelling reason for the appeal to be heard, within the meaning of CPR 52.6(1)(b).
“By late Saturday afternoon, Saudi Arabia said it had evacuated 157 Saudis and people of other nationalities, broadcasting footage of people on a naval ship, and Kuwait said some of its citizens had arrived in Jeddah.
APM, in its petition, joined INEC, APC, Mr Tinubu, Kashim Shettima and Kabir Masari, who stood as vice-presidential placeholder during the primaries before he was substituted with Mr Shettima.
Mr Obi also prayed “for a better and new Nigeria, where equity, fairness, peace, unity, accountable leadership and prosperity shall reign.”
Still, Pretoria appears to be preparing for future visits by allies who might fall foul of the ICC.
“We have also been able to provide training and capacity-building programmes for healthcare providers and traditional leaders to improve the quality of services they offer,” he said.
Mr Lawan added: “Everybody is enthusiastic, everybody is ready, we want to come in and continue to contribute to making Nigeria better but the parliament is not like the executive.
The spokesman stressed that the suspects should have adhered to the constitutional provisions and the university’s regulations rather than taking the law into their hands.
Time failed enough, and times has brought not his kind
“Other state chapters alleged to have been involved in similar infractions are still under investigation as necessary sanctions for those found culpable will be communicated appropriately.
“Well, I’m sure he (Mr Matawalle) will not pay these outstanding salaries.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that EFCC’s counsel, Offem Uket, said he was unaware that the AGF was taking over the matter.
On the other hand, PDP loyalists may not be so excited about the election especially those who believe the incumbent governor, Mr Tambuwal did not help their preferred aspirants in the primaries.
A coalition of newly elected lawmakers of the minority parties has set up a committee to produce consensus candidates for the Speaker and Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives from their ranks.
The NPHCDA boss said the COVID-19 pandemic worsened the situation by bringing about social restrictions and heightening public distrust in the health systems.
The Monday event turned out to be a venue of solidarity among the aspirants as they openly rejected the endorsement of Mr Abbas.
Mr Edafe, a deputy superintendent of police, said the suspects led police operatives to another notorious gang member.at Egbike Community in Udu Local Government Area on 12 May
Although, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) waived nomination forms for PWDs and women, in the presidential election, the expression of interest form was N30 million.
The summit is expected to feature robust conversations on ways to enhance understanding of the importance of the National Animal Feed Policy, value chain development, National Strategic Feed Reserve and National Alternative Feed Ingredients.
According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), the World Immunisation Week is celebrated annually in the last week of April and this year’s event which kicked off on 24 April, will run through 30 April.
He noted that the urgent investment, innovation and implementation would help curtail malaria spread wherever the disease is found around the world.
Similarly, Biodun Olujimi (PDP-Ekiti) said the motion was timely, saying that it was important to resolve the issue as that was not the situation in the past when passports were issued within two to three days.
We thought that it was our responsibility for us to pick up from where we met the situation of the commission by improving on the successes of our predecessors and also correcting their mistakes,” he said.
“God willing, nothing will stop it,” he added.
“Going by the record when we took over from the opposition government we inherited projects worth over N90 billion, we are proud to say those project has been completed and commissioned.
The 2015 rebellion has been explained earlier.
‘‘We must engage with MOFI to understand their aspirations, needs, and challenges, we must continue to adapt and innovate in a rapidly changing world.’’
Abia Assembly Crisis: 16 members ‘suspend’ Speaker, nine suspend Deputy, others
All eyes will be on the ruling party, bearing in mind its inability to ensure geographical spread since 2015 during which the South-east and South-south were not represented among Nigeria’s top four citizens: President, Vice President, Senate President and Speaker.
In his speech, Anthony Jiendu, a former chairperson of Oyi Local Government Area, Jude Anieka, expressed optimism that with the installation, the community would experience development.
“Others are CP Police Mobile Force FHQ, Audu Dabigi; CP Anti-Fraud FCID Annex Lagos, Patrick Atayero; CP INEC Abuja, Olaiya Mobolaji; CP CCR, Olaolu Adegbite; and CP DFA Force Intelligence Bureau, Disu Rilwan.
“This is very important amendment to the Constitution and we are happy that it is going to be part of our legacy as the 9th National Assembly,” he said,
Mr Buhari congratulated Mr Yakubu, a retired general, and all the former and incumbent directors-general of the corps for inspiring and sustaining a 50-year legacy that had strengthened a web of solidarity and bolstered loyalty to the nation.
It was gathered that commercial activities were affected in the ensuing melee, as residents abandoned the town in panic.
“What you are seeing today is the fulfillment of Lagos state government’s promise to maintain and sustain a serene and habitable environment, free from security incidents and occurrences.
“The commission is ready for the conduct of the supplementary elections.
It was founded by Waziri Adio, immediate past executive secretary of the Nigeria Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (NEITI).
He emphasised that the conference would continue to serve as an open market, or meeting point for the private sector to tap into a world of opportunities to invest and generate incredible returns on their investments.
Appointed in April 2021, Mr Abakpa is the pioneer executive secretary of the Commission.
The suspension was announced during a press conference led by the ward chairman, Tanimu Abdullahi, on Tuesday.
“It is very clear that 2023 flood threatens not only the rural dwellers who reside along river banks because urban flood is also very highly expected in metropolitan towns in Kwara state.
He said that, on May 24, there would be a courtesy visit to Charles Igwe, the Vice Chancellor of UNN, before the commencement of the opening ceremony.
Mr Ikenga said the slain gunmen were among a gang of four hoodlums operating in an unregistered black Lexus SUV in the area, but were intercepted by the joint security operatives, who engaged them in a shootout.
The first was in 2015, with the Bill that sought to introduce more clarity to the view that the President’s assent to any constitutional amendment bill is unnecessary.
Mr Elumelu’s new acquisition confers on him more than one quarter of Transcorp’s entire voting rights and also means those two will now take the back seat behind him among Transcorp’s top three shareholders.
Votes – 274, 031
It is thanks to God for the love He has for us all these years.
They stated that it is in the best interest of the party to dissolve the PCC with immediate effect.
“The written witness statement of Mr Fagbewesa did not mention padlocks or keys at all.”
“I believed this position was ideal for the south-east region, as it has not produced a speaker in the last 40 years.
Ondo State keyed in and identified oil palm as a crop in which we have competitive advantage.
The plaintiffs alleged that the Kogi APC governorship candidate and other public office holders sued in the case violated the Electoral Act.
“It is with such understanding that the 9th National Assembly has guarded itself against the introduction of any anti-labour legislation since its inception in 2019.
A five-member panel of the court led by John Okoro unanimously upheld the decision of the Court of Appeal in Abuja which had earlier on 24 March affirmed Mr Adeleke’s victory.
• Ibrahim Gobir -Sokoto East
Mr Buhari expressed his readiness to welcome Mr Tinubu to the State House as President on 29 May.
Mr Lawan condemned the killings, calling on the security agencies to arrest the perpetrators and maintain law and order in the affected communities.
Corroborating the testimony of Defence 11, Defence 13, who claimed she bore a child for Mr Missisquoi said he was “a personal assistant” to Foday Sankoh, the RUF leader, but was never involved with combat activities.
What’s driving this shift?
Brokers blame builders’ negligence for Banana Island building collapse
Mr Ndukwe, a deputy superintendent of police, gave the names of the suspects as Miracle Orji, 24 and Blessing Ani, 34.
This is to serve as deterrence and effective enforcement against individuals and organizations whose violations of the electoral laws are undermining the Constitution and threatening our democracy.
Counsel to the respondent, Ganiyu Ogunsanwo, did not oppose the application for the withdrawal of the two petitions.
Earlier, Chairman of NLC in the state, Kayode Martins, called for improvement in the workers’ working conditions to further encourage professionalism, dedication and commitment to their duties.
Governor of Sokoto State, Aminu Tambuwal, Chairman of the PDP governor’s forum [PHOTO CREDIT: @AWTambuwal]PDP’s Gwanda – Gobir is leading with 2,050 votes in the Sokoto East.
The governor of Benue State, Samuel Ortom, who has often criticised President Muhammadu Buhari, has commended the president for postponing the 2023 census.
So, when the new CAMA was passed in 2020, it heralded a new dawn in doing business in Nigeria.
Mr Idris polled 409,225 votes to defeat his closest contestant, Aminu Bande of PDP who scored 360,940 votes, while Udu Idris of People’s Redemption Party, scored 3,103 votes.
At the event, Mrs Buhari revealed her achievements as her tenure comes to an end on 29 May.
“And the entire people in that entire building they are like 150 or 200.
“Steps to strengthen multilateral cooperation are essential to make progress in creating a more resilient world economy, including bolstering the global financial safety net, mitigating the costs of climate change, and reducing the adverse effects of geo-economic fragmentation,” it said.
“Emefiele has committed a crime against humanity, over and beyond even any electoral mago mago (foul play),” Mr Soyinka said.
Ten of our people were killed in this attack, and we believe they were killed by policemen and vigilante members,” he said.
We are talking about governance of a state, we are not talking about drama for Christ’s sake,” Mr Wike said on Tuesday during a media chat in Port Harcourt.
The lawmaker also recalled the communication from the Federal Ministry of Finance requesting the approval of modifications to the financing proposal for the Nigerian Railway Modernisation Project (Kaduna-Kano segment).
NAN reports that the anti-graft agency had, in 2017, raided the residence of the ex-NNPC boss in Kaduna and found $9.8 million and 74,000 pounds in a safe.
The court had, on 23 March, dismissed a suit filed by Mr Kanu’s family seeking a judicial review of the UK government’s failure to reach “a firm view” in the IPOB leader’s extraordinary rendition to Nigeria.
Thank you,” the official said and ended the call.
Meanwhile, the Returning Officer for the Sokoto North Senatorial District, Ibrahim Magawata, had also returned Aliyu Wamakko, as the winner of the Sokoto North Senatorial District.
“Despite their loss at the Court of Appeal last week and the decision of the Court of Appeal Judges to quash all the charges, if the EFCC deems it fit to go to an Abuja court after seven years of unsuccessfully prosecuting the same matter in Lagos, that is their prerogative.
The spokesperson of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Festus Okoye, and INEC Returning Officer Mohammed Mele, are coordinating collation of the results.
Mr Sada said other petitioners include the All Progressives Congress (APC) and its candidate for Ogbomoso South state constituency, Adegoke Ayodeji; New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP) and its candidate for Ogbomoso South state constituency, Adeniyi Oluwaseun.
Nigeria’s Aviation Minister, Hadi Sirika, in a tweet posted on his official Twitter page Sunday, announced that he had commissioned “ten firefighting trucks” costing over N12 billion.
The plaintiffs are also seeking “an order directing and compelling the NBC to reverse its arbitrary and unlawful decision to impose a fine of N5m on Channels TV forthwith.”
Yes, we have the right to be angry and we should be angry.
The misfortune of vetoing vital constitutional alteration bills has occurred before but should it continue, especially with a legislator of your stature as the Senate President?
One shot as crisis erupts in Ikare again
“I did not want to believe that the state security services were being speculative.
“There are universities across the world that offer medicine, especially in nearby countries like Egypt, Cyprus, and Turkey.
Mr Tinubu was later declared winner of the election.
Others in attendance were the governor-elect of Rivers State, Sim Fubara, Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare, Dele Alake and Kashim Ibrahim Imam, among others.
The university also banned the use of tinted vehicles by staffers and students.
In the letter, signed by the newspaper’s Editor-in-Chief, Musikilu Mojeed, it specifically sought clarification on Mr Obi’s offences, when and how he was released, the conditions upon which he was released, the current status of the case against him and other related issues.
The judge ordered the company, Mbuta Criterion Nigeria Limited to pay a fine of N100, 000.00 (One Hundred Thousand Naira); and the convict is not to be released until his company pays the fine.
Outgoing British envoy visits Buhari, says she had fabulous time in Nigeria
Mrs Ogunbiyi, retired justice of the Supreme Court, also said the commission will need support in carrying out background checks on recruits and cadets in training to assist verify their credentials and determine previous criminal records or involvement in criminal activities.
Nigerian Army retires, replaces 53 units’ colours, issues 28 new ones
He was born on October 22, 1986.
The book further exposes “the elite capture of the Nigerian states and their struggle to retain strongholds matter what it takes.”
Similarly, Victoria Bamas, who reports for the International Centre for Investigative Reporting (ICIR), said she came to network with female journalists and the training has met her expectations.
President-elect Bola Tinubu on Friday joined President Muhammadu Buhari and hundreds of Muslim faithful to perform the 2-rakat Friday prayer at the Aso Rock Mosque, Presidential Villa, Abuja.
“The SOS Children’s Village anticipates that the Humanitarian Action for Flood-Affected Families Project will help participating households build resilience on their path to recovery and stability,” he said.
Distinguished Senator Lawan, you may also face some resistance especially from outside the National Assembly, but you are no stranger to such challenges.
Gone are the days when it is said that the judiciary is the hope of the common man, not anymore in Nigeria,” Mr Powerful said.
Onuoha: I am very confident that the zoning will scheme me in.
The zone has seven local government areas.
He said the WHO is also celebrating its 75th anniversary.
Mr Omisore has, however, denied the allegation and demanded a public apology and payment of N500 million in damages.
The official outcome of the visitation is yet unknown as of press time.
There are currently 258 universities in Nigeria; 50 federal universities, 60 state universities and 148 private universities.
The Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Isa Pantami, said at the end of Wednesday’s cabinet meeting that the policy was developed in consultation with stakeholders involving more than 50 institutions and personalities.
— valking ♔ (@_VALKlNG) May 14, 2023
APC, PDP win Oyo House of Representatives seats
“We didn’t attack them (the Wurkanawa) because we don’t have any issue with them.
Monday makes the former NBN president Okey Wali's seventh day in the kidnappers' den.
Prof Ernest Ojukwu, SAN – CHAIRMAN
The association elected Hauwa’u Yusuf, a professor at Kaduna State University, as President of the association.
Mr Buhari stated this while speaking to journalists shortly after observing the Eid prayer, marking the end of the 30-day Ramadan fasting by Muslims.
He further said that the president-elect needed highly competent National Assembly members with vast knowledge of legislative business to complement him in delivering dividends of democracy to Nigerians.
Our commitment to international good manufacturing processes is unwavering and the quality in every pack of instant noodles produced in all our factories in Nigeria is non-negotiable.”
Pauline Abhulimen – ALTERNATE CHAIRMAN
The suits were then adjourned for judgment.
“The matter, wherein we represent the 2nd defendant (Fani-Kayode), came up on the 25th of April, 2023.
“We were there this morning early enough at about 8:30 a.m., polling units were opened.
Apart from Ms Atoki, the two other judges on the panel are Sengu Mohamed Koroma and Ricardo Cláudio Monteiro Gonçalves.
• Oyelola Yisa Ashiru – Kwara South
“We have a lot of backlog of unpaid salaries, pensions and gratuities.
The officer failed to give an account of Mr Asadu’s whereabouts.
The notice which was with immediate effect enjoined all Ministries Departments and Agencies (MDAs) responsible for staff promotion to comply forthwith.
And this was the basis the country’s National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) announced the approval granted the vaccine use after it conducted its in-house checks.
11:13am: Wole Olanipekun (SAN) announces appearance for Bola Tinubu, president-elect.
The minister made clarifications of his comments during a recent official trip to the U.S.
On Tuesday, Nollywood comic actor Charles Awurum took a funny swipe at the Labour Party Presidential flag bearer Peter Obi over what he inferred as his unassuming yet significant impact in the just-concluded general elections.
She also expressed worry that “in both the judiciary and the public sector there are no initiatives in place to help women reach the top in their careers.”
With effect from 1 June 2023, “vehicles below 2000cc, mass transit buses, electric vehicles, and locally manufactured vehicles are exempted”.
AMR: Drug-resistant diseases now constitute threats to global health – Experts
Addressing journalists in Lagos on Sunday, the National President of the association, Seyi Gambo, said in 2015, via a memo addressed to the education ministry, Kaduna State had requested “no objection to excise 45 metres of land from the South-Western end of the fence inwards along the stretch of Umar Mohammed Road to provide plots for immediate development.”
), a former Commander of the Military Joint Task Force, Operation Pulo Shield, in the Niger Delta.
The universities, they argue, also offer wide range of degree programmes ranging from sciences, humanities to professional courses like engineering and medicine.
Before I met Tinubu, I had noted his accomplishments, right from when he was governor.
Why there’s shortage of Nigerian passport – Official
But despite its suspension, residents of the five South-east states — Enugu, Ebonyi, Imo, Abia and Anambra — have been observing the Monday sit-at-home order, mostly out of fear.
The collation of results of the supplementary election in Adamawa State has resumed.
The police spokesperson in the state, Mohammed Shehu did not respond to calls and SMS sent to him by PREMIUM TIMES over the abduction.
Ekpenyong: For instance, the law brought in a one-man company, that is, a person can own a company these days and hold meetings via Skype and Zoom instead of calling for meetings and travelling; incurring extra expenses and the attendant issues.
Of those killed, 641 were from the central part of the state while 349 were from the Southern part of the state.
I am a bold person, I have swam against sharks.
They said the policeman had been arrested, and the CP (Commissioner of Police) has also been informed,” he said.
The new appointee is a seasoned senior executive with close to 31 years of experience
“Well, you know the situation in this state.
Their (terrorists) target are the villages of Gigane, Tungar Tudu, Asara.
Speaking on Monday, Mr Buhari described the bill as revolutionary.
The state counsel, Adekunle Laditan, told the court that the state, being a law abiding government, would also study the decision.
“The LP presidential candidate in the February 25 presidential poll arrived at the Heathrow Airport in London from Nigeria on Good Friday, April 7, 2023, and joined the queue for the necessary Airport protocols when he was accosted by immigration officials who handed him a detention note and told him to step aside,” Mr Onifade said.
Xavier, however, with his hidden intentions, breaks the news of Boma’s illness to Donna.
It is in the light of that, that five of us sat – we will work as a team to prevent the parliament from being hijacked, to be made a lame duck.”
“The exercise of the right to freedom of expression through the media is a guarantee that is fundamental for advancing the collective deliberative process on public and democratic issues.”
As of 8 May, WHO said over 87,000 Mpox cases and 140 deaths have been reported from 111 countries.
The Director of the Board, Abubakar Evuti, announced this in a statement issued by the Public Relations Officer of the board, Muhammad Aliyu, on Tuesday in Abuja.
Seyi, who was active in his father’s campaign, is a businessman, known for his interest in advertising.
The sister, according to Mr Gwamnishu, said she had not been seeing her brother because they were detained in different cells.
“More than ever, we must collaborate to ensure that no child or person dies of malaria or loses another day to this debilitating illness again.
The doctors, amongst other issues, are demanding the immediate payment of the 2023 Medical Residency Training Fund (MRTF), tangible steps on the “upward review” of the Consolidated Medical Salary Structure (CONMESS) and payment of all salary arrears owed its members from 2015.
Mr Danmadami said the Operation Safe Conduct which was conducted towards the successful conduct of the elections to support police and INEC was successful.
The application was said to have been developed by the newspaper in partnership with Project Enable Africa, a disability inclusion hub.
He said: “We as a caucus met and first welcome the President -elect from his trip and asked that fairness takes place in the distribution of leadership to all the geo-political zones.
“Everyone has a role to play to reduce the burden of the disease,” the programme manager said.
These challenges, Mr Umakhihe said, have necessitated the need for the summit, creating a platform to engage key players and major stakeholders in the feed industry to develop a roadmap for attaining animal feed security in the country.
While Messrs Curtis and Fagbewesa answered questions about the processes behind the scenes when luggage arrived at Heathrow and the checking process at Lagos airport, the judge said that neither of them was giving evidence of actual events that they witnessed, but rather their view of their general experience and understanding.
He said he was happy to accept the position, pointing out that it was also a surprise that Igbos can unanimously accept that one person leads them without struggles.
A former worker at the company, Adepoju Adedotun, testified in defence of the defendants, confirming that many labourers usually took Indian hemp on site to be able to do the strenuous work they were engaged for.
Mr Tinubu in his response to Atiku’s petition described the former Nigeria’s vice president as a “serial loser.”
But the police source who does not want to be named because he isn’t authorized to speak said the singer is “presently being taken to the State Criminal Intelligence Department in Panti, in the Yaba area of the state’.
The SBM Jollof Index tracks how much it costs to make a pot of jollof rice across 13 markets in six geopolitical zones for a family of five and uses the figures to measure the inflationary trends in the country.
“What you have done under three-and-a-half years of your administration is next to none.
In the North-east, he said, troops of Operation Hadin Kai sustained offensive operation against Boko Haram and Islamic State of West Africa Province (ISWAP) terrorists.
We have not heard anything from him whether he has zoned, whether he has endorsed a particular candidate,” Mr Gagdi said.
“President Conde then invited Tinubu to Guinea about one month to the election for his second term.
He equally called on the public, especially parents to key into the command’s fight against all forms of gender-based violence and promised to prosecute perpetrators in accordance with extant laws.
He added that the court officials were present when the petitioners walked out, adding that Victor Umoh, SAN, and others represented the team for the 4th respondent.
“We wish to inform the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) that the social media post has since been withdrawn,” the company said.
The APC argued that since the APM was not a member of the party, it did not know “how it becomes the petitioner’s business how it nominates its candidates.”
In fifth petition against Tinubu’s victory, another party alleges results’ manipulation in 11 states
The government of the United Kingdom has responded to PREMIUM TIME’s letter requesting the details of the arrest and detention of the Labour Party presidential candidate, Peter Obi, by its immigration officials at Heathrow Airport in London last week.
“It is an unequal and out-of-date system because it has a hereditary billionaire individual born into wealth and privilege who basically symbolises the inequality of wealth and power in our society,” said lawmaker Clive Lewis, who was among the anti-monarchy protesters.
She also told the court that her ex husband dupped her of all her savings after which he divorced her.
The governor said he agreed with the pleas of the president-elect and decided to endorse former governor of Akwa Ibom State, Godswill Akpabio, as the next senate president.
Mr Ekwo acknowledged that the applicant’s lawyer moved a motion for an interim injunction to postpone the conduct of the 2023 Census.
“The bid winners consist some of these new companies, as well as companies previously involved in the contract.
The playwright had in a statement said ‘Obidients’ wear their refusal to “accept constructive criticism as a badge of honour”, while addressing criticism he received from supporters of the LP.
Mr Nyako was handling the trial before the Court of Appeal in Abuja dismissed the charges last year.
In his remark, the Minister of FCT thanked the President for hosting residents for the 9th Eid-el-Fitr, and allowing more people into the Villa for the last homage, before his handing over on May 29th.
Mr Maken also flayed President Muhammadu Buhari for not condemning the dastardly acts perpetrated by the terrorists.
He said the first categories of candidates are to take their examinations in Abuja, Nigeria’s Federal Capital Territory (FCT) “under close supervision.”
The All Progressives Congress (APC) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have shared the two House of Representatives’ seats declared in Oyo State after Saturday’s supplementary elections.
“Israel recycles and reuses 94 per cent of its wastewater, primarily for agriculture, which when combined with drip technology increases crop output, while utilising significantly less resources.
The Chief Magistrate, Musa Al-Yunus, granted the requests of the defence lawyers and adjourned the case till April 27, for a reply to the affidavit and ruling.
Herd Immunity: Experts urge Nigerians to accept COVID-19 vaccines
They entered a car without making any comments.
In some polling units in Obio/Akpor, PREMIUM TIMES found that some results were altered in favour of the APC, with the original scores mutilated.
The Minister of State for Transportation, Ademola Adegoroye, briefed State House correspondents after the FEC meeting on Wednesday at the Presidential Villa, Abuja.
The lender’s PE ratio at market close on Friday was 3.8x, while the EPS is N0.98.
While the outcome is against our wish and that of our party members and supporters, we are all bound to accept it as law-abiding citizens.”
He made these assertions on Sunday when he led his campaign team on a courtesy visit to the governor of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu.
The Writer-turned ethnic politician did also not indicate that the Presidential election was conducted on the same date as the National Assembly elections in which the ruling party won about 60% of all seats in the Senate and House of Representatives.
Mr Obi, a former governor of Anambra State, South-east Nigeria, was on 7 April (Good Friday) intercepted by immigration officials at Heathrow airport and detained.
“Our leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, has once again, ordered from DSS custody that Monday sit-at-home should cease in every part of Biafra Land.
The High Court of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, on Thursday dismissed a suit seeking the nullification of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) delegates lists for the governorship primaries scheduled to hold on Friday.
A foreign exchange crunch, erupting in the heat of the coronavirus pandemic in 2020, is tightening the noose on FMCG firms in Africa’s largest economy, many of whom depend on imported raw materials to run.
After receiving a text message, he responded via the same medium, asking for the details of the case which were provided.
UBA Nominees is the custodian business of United Bank for Africa (UBA).
The UN is also worried that Sudan’s healthcare system could completely collapse as hospitals need additional staff and supplies, including blood.
“Electoral violence and other electoral offences reportedly committed during the 2023 general elections are contrary to the express provisions of the Nigerian Constitution 1999 [as amended], the Electoral Act and international standards.”
“I have rested; I am refreshed and I am ready for the task ahead, forget about what the rumour mill may have told you.
In the petition, number EPT/LAG/GOV/04/2023, they are praying the court to grant them leave to serve the petition and other processes on the governor and his deputy through substituted means, by posting same via DHL courier services or any other recognised courier service company, to the respondent’s official residence at Lagos House, Marina, Lagos.
As you prepare to return to Daura or Kaduna, I do not know if you feel fulfilled or that you met the tall dreams and goals you set for yourself such as: ending banditry, defeating corruption, bringing back our girls, belonging to everybody and belonging to nobody, selling off our presidential fleet and travelling with us etc.
They have your type in the US, so they understand the issues correctly.”
* Two (2) bank cards
He added that the mover of the motion failed to provide facts to back the claims he is making.
On 15 April, an armed conflict between rival factions of the military government of Sudan began when clashes broke out in western Sudan, in the capital city of Khartoum, and the Darfur region of the country.
Some tax and import duty provisions in the 2023 fiscal policy measures of the federal government would significantly hurt the Nigerian economy, the Centre for the Promotion of Private Enterprise (CPPE) has said.
Mr Abakpa holds a Bachelor’s and Masters of Education (B.Ed and M.Ed) in Mathematics from Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria, and a Doctorate degree (PhD) in Mathematics from the University of Agriculture, Makurdi.
A former President of the Nigerian Guild of Editors (NGE) and immediate past Osun State Commissioner for Information, Funke Egbemode leads the Fund Raising Committee while Hajia Sani, the Director, Digital Media, Voice of Nigeria (VON) is the chairperson of the Programme Committee.
It is about how we treat one another.
But in a new lawsuit instigated by the Nigerian government through the Ministry of Interior, the government brought a four-count charge against the company according to court papers seen by PREMIUM TIMES.
“As you know, we do not want a bully as a leader in the 10th House of Representatives that is why he is our anointed candidate and we chose to begin awareness from Enugu,” he noted.
It is therefore not surprising that even the victors are blowing a muted trumpet.
The letter was not addressed to any particular government official.
Mr Biu, however, urged motorists to comply with the traffic rules and regulations to avoid crashes, especially during the Easter celebration.
Mr Bagudu stated this while speaking at the occasion of 2023 Workers’ Day on Monday in Birnin Kebbi, the state capital.
The team, with support from other nutrition stakeholders, will develop a National Nutrition Media Strategy, and engage in continuous public nutrition literacy, among other tasks.
“In consequence of their registration with the government, as farmers engaging in agricultural activities, they were directed to pay an annual rent of N10,000 per farmer either individually or camp by camp, to the Ondo State Government.”
The governor described the report as “satanic fabrication and fake news.”
853,819; Kebbi, 770,169; and Benue, 768,602.
This led to the declaration of Mr Oluomo as the winner of the election.
But no election was conducted in Mr Iwuanyanwu's case.
“Let me emphasise in conclusion that our concern is Nigeria’s unity and the stability of the 10th House of Representatives.
He recounted that the presidential candidate of the party, Peter Obi, had alerted the public that there was a plot by some unnamed persons to hound him out of the country.
They took adequate care to ensure that.
In a statement signed by its Public Relations Officer, Abiodun Olarewaju, on Tuesday, the university “condemned, in strong terms, the incidence that led to the death of a part 5 student of the institution.”
12:49pm: INEC lawyer, Mr Mahmoud, informs court that the electoral commission has filed its responses to the pre-hearing questions.
Tinubu’s administration will give priority to gender issues – Shettima
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the prayer session was led by the Chief Imam of the mosque, Abubakar Sulaiman.
“As a Prelate, he was one of the most patriotic Nigerians, who not only stood for what is right but also spoke truth to power without fear or favour.
The nearest the zone has come is Deputy Speaker between 2011 and 2015.
Ms Ikeanyionwu said the suspect was arrested on Friday by the commissioner and handed over to the police in the state.
This was followed by Adamawa – 35 per cent, Gombe – 34 per cent, Bauchi – 32 per cent, Ekiti – 32 per cent, Kaduna – 32 per cent, Katsina – 31 per cent, FCT – 30 per cent, and Niger – 30 per cent.
The two letters show the NGX was carbon copied in the notifications.
The suit filed on behalf of SERAP by its lawyers Kolawole Oluwadare, Andrew Nwankwo and Blessing Ogwuche, read in part: “Election violence is a threat to fair and representative elections.”
‘‘57.14 per cent of the entire African unicorns originated from Nigeria while the market value of 7 of them combined as of February 2023 is $ 11.45 billion, with the 4 from Nigeria contributing $ 7.5 billion,’’ he said.
Mr Olupona, a former lecturer at the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, was elected under the category of the study of religion.
He had urged Mr Oni to join him in the development of the state, having explored the judicial process over his grievances on the election.
Governor Wike backed the APC’s Mr Tinubu, now Nigeria’s president-elect, while Governor Ortom of Benue State supported the LP candidate, Mr Obi.
“This collaboration is a testament to our commitment to creating a sustainable future for Lagos.”
On Monday, Mrs Dabiri-Erewa announced that Nigeria had finally secured entrance documents to Egypt for the evacuees after the direct intervention of President Muhammadu Buhari.
Although Mr Tinubu won and believes competence should be prioritised over religious and ethnic considerations, many Nigerians including members of his party believe there is a “religious debt” to be repaid by him and the ruling party.
She warned that no amount of blackmail and misinformation would make the government rescind its decision on the use of its land.
APC condemns sack of Ilesa varsity principal officers
He further studied at the University of Ibadan, Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Israel and Harvard University in the United States of America.
In his speech, Mr Betara told Mr Adamu and the NWC members that the president-elect, Bola Tinubu, directly interfered in the 2019 speakership race by pleading with him to step down for Femi Gbajabiamila.
“In the letter signed by Dr.(Mrs) Ifeoma A. Anyanwutaku, Permanent Secretary and Secretary to the Commission and dated, 5th May 2023, the Commission requested for “prompt and favourable response in activating and emplacing the necessary processes and procedures at ensuring that these Police Officers are immediately captured on the required payment platform and paid accordingly,” the statement said.
Already, meetings with multi-sectoral actors in Europe’s business community, including manufacturing, agriculture, tech and energy have been lined up, a part of the statement noted.
Just like automobile headlights, their purpose is to illuminate the taxiway several feet in front of the aircraft so pilots can safely drive to the gate or runway.
The bill passed by the national assembly has been a major leap for the agitations, but the president has yet to assent to the bill.
May Almighty Allah bless him with Aljanah Firdaus.”
The President also commiserated with the legal community in Nigeria and worldwide, noting that the outstanding lawyer and eminent jurist used his knowledge, intellect and talent to advocate for justice, fairness and equity in all his undertakings within and outside Nigeria.
“I see a man of principle.
The prosecution’s first witness had told the court that the Aras Group LLC drew Hillcrest’s attention to the damaging article, saying “they would not deal with (a) company that is involved in illicit drugs activities.”
“We have about 800 Directly Observed Treatments (DOTS) Centres for TB, but the major problem is lack of awareness among residents about TB, its diagnosis and treatment,” he said.
Also speaking, Abubakar Sulaiman, Director-General, National Institute for Legislative and Democratic Studies (NILDS), said the institute has the experience, tools and expertise to support the new members in bill and motion drafting, bill analysis and scrutiny among others.
IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu arrives Federal High Court in Abuja in continuation of his trial on Wednesday.
In Oyo, PDP’s Seyi Makinde won by landslide to defeat Teslim Folarin of the APC.
The first half continued as a tense, back-and-forth battle, with Nigeria relentlessly searching for an equaliser but unable to break through South Africa’s solid defence.
Lambo was the first president of the Federal Revenue Court and served between 1973 and 1975, Justice John Tsoho is the 10th and current Chief Judge of FHC.
2023 Polls: PDP replies Buhari, asks foreign countries to impose travel ban on outgoing president, family
And it is the fight against poverty, ignorance, disease, disunity, ethnic and religious hate and all negative forces that contend against the stability and prosperity of our country.
“Defence 7” [name given him by the Court to avoid retributions], who said he was also a commander for the RUF told the Court that he, Mr Massaquoi and other RUF fighters came to Liberia in 2000 with a delegation for a peace mission at the requests of the Economic Community of West Africa States (ECOWAS), and Charles Taylor, the Liberian President at the time.
Mrs Olusola Adegbomire – CHAIRMAN
Mr Omotosho held that the powers granted to CAC to regulate and administer Incorporated Trustees in Nigeria under Sections 839, 842, 843, 844, Section 845, Section 846, Section 847, Section 848 of the CAMA 2020 had infringed on Mr Ekpenyong’s right to freedom of thoughts.
Mr Osinbajo will attend the IGW Africa Leadership opening ceremony on Friday and speak at the first session on Saturday.
“The government dissolved RTEAN, suspended its operations and took over the garages,” he said.
“All public documents coming from INEC and duly certified will not be objected to, but other documents may be objected to with reasons given and arguments presented at the end of the day before judgement.
Give us the benefit of the doubt; we are going to solve the problem.”
The former Group Managing Director (GMD) of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Andrew Yakubu, has sued the EFCC, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and the Guarantee Trust Bank (GTB) over alleged refusal to release his $9.8 million after a court judgment.
A statement by Femi Adesina, Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, said Mr Buhari chaired the inauguration of the 14-member Council and directed the Secretariat, the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA), to ensure faithful implementation of the Act, which provides incentives and support for start-ups, including tax breaks and access to funding.
In accepting his appointment as Grand Patron of the Arewa Young Lawyers’ Forum, the presidential spokesperson urged members of the association to be at the vanguard of promoting the study and practice of the legal profession in the northern states.
The plaintiffs are alleging violation of the Electoral Act 2022 and the constitution of the federal Republic of Nigeria in the primary election.
Proffering solutions to the defaulting rate, Chairman of the Senate Committee on Power, Gabriel Suswam, proposed that the ministry of finance should deduct from the allocations of the affected government agencies that are found guilty of defaulting electricity bills.
He appears to be seeking bipartisan support for his ambition.
In addition, Mr Omotosho noted that the phrase, “‘in the opinion of the commission’ is too vague,” saying, “the enjoyment of the right to freedom of association will invariably be subject to the whims of the commission.”
Speaking on the question of how the cigarettes would have got into the bag if Mr Fagbewesa did not put them there, Mr Carey argued that the alternatives were implausible in the extreme, requiring several people acting in concert within the airline industry in both Lagos and Heathrow in order to have had access to the bags after Mr Fagebwesa had checked them in and before he picked them up at Heathrow.
We restate our demand that INEC should without further delay hand over Mallam Hudu Yunusa Ari to the police for investigation and prosecution,” he said.
The Kebbi State governor-elect, Nasiru Idris, and his deputy will also be presented with their certificates.
However, a Kano State High Court and the Court of Appeal in the state quashed Mr Sharif-Aminu’s conviction.
“We lost almost a year and a half to security challenges or sometimes contractors had to move from that section completely – they could not work.
They chose to support a candidate from the South over Atiku, their party’s candidate from the North.
The Nigerian Communications Commission‘s Computer Security Incident Response Team (NCC-CSIRT) has recommended that users of the popular messaging app, WhatsApp, set up two-factor authentication (2FA) to avoid falling victim to account takeover by hackers.
This was contained in a terse statement posted on the commission’s Twitter handle on Tuesday shortly after a meeting in Abuja.
Mr Tinubu and Mr Shettima, the vice president-elect, are, however, within time to respond to all the petitions.
Presenting the award to the VP on behalf of the PEBEC secretariat team and its alumni, Mr Oduwole said, “Your Excellency, your outstanding leadership qualities are well known.
There are speculations that the community had been enmeshed in a leadership crisis for some years now.
Mr Akpabio said the senators-elect supporting his ambition are people with integrity who have distanced themselves from money politics.
Subsequently, the Christian body launched a legal action at the Federal High Court in Abuja, seeking to set aside the new legislation.
“The Governor also commended the General Officer Commanding, 1 Division, Major General OT Akinjobi for the prompt evacuation and the ongoing medicals being conducted on the students,” the statement said.
I want to just die.”
As the philanthropist turns a septuagenarian, the President believes the numerous national and global awards are well deserved, including the highest individual honour for a private citizen in Nigeria, GCON, and many others of high note like “The Companion of the Star of Ghana’’ from Ghana and “Commander of the Legion of Honour’’ by French President, Emmanuel Macron.
They stated that the 1st and 2nd respondents (the Reynolds companies) were incorporated “ostensibly to conceal the co-mingling of the assets, goodwill and resources of the company (Solel Boneh) perpetuated by the 1st to 4th, 6th and 8th respondents.”
tribunal to contest it.
So far, there are 11 aspirants in the race for the speakership of the House.
She called on stakeholders to ensure that all girls were educated so as to project society in a good light.
Five of the sustained charges have to do with alleged acts of terrorism, including professing to be a member and leader of IPOB, a proscribed organisation, issuing inciteful and deadly threats against individuals, and issuing directives, among others.
“Also, the entire populace is hereby appreciated for the support given to members of the armed forces and other security agencies in the conduct of our various operations.”
The first involved 1.9 million shares sold at N288.9 each on 8 May; the second 948,092 shares sold at N290.7 per unit on 9 May, according to a regulatory filing seen by PREMIUM TIMES.
“I also enclose herewith the certified copy of the order and the judgment of the Court” Zainab Garba, Registrar, Litigation, Supreme Court of Nigeria, stated.
He then adjourned the case until 2 May for hearing.
“Consequently, the joint CWC resolved to withdraw the guarantee of industrial peace in Imo State; to embark on a comprehensive shutdown of Imo State beginning from Wednesday the 3rd of May 2023,” the labour unions said in the communique.
They were deployed from the Nigeria Police, Zone 2 Command, Obalende, Lagos.”
He explained that the animal feed market is characterised by a mix of small-scale, traditional methods and large-scale modern methods coupled with challenges such as lack of access to credit and markets, low investment in research and development, limiting the ability of the animal feed sector to innovate and improve production methods.
AGF Malami terminates trial of Dasuki’s ex-aide after taking over from EFCC
Read Mike Ozekhome’s statement in full below:
Results would no longer feature more than voters.
His overture to the Christian Association of Nigeria and the appointment of Simon Lalong as the director-general of his campaign did not stop some Christian clerics from openly speaking against his candidacy.
“We have been managing their matter and have given them everything they want, including the residency training programme funds, we are paying them, even when in training, we pay them a full salary, pay them all the allowances and you decided that we have not done enough,” he said.
“As we already know, the WURI programme seeks to address the gaps in people’s identification in a more sustainable digitised manner and to use these ID platforms to facilitate access to services both within and across the participating Member States,” the official noted.
Mr Hassan – Adamu said aside not campaigning for the party’s candidates, Mr Misau “openly” discouraged people from voting for the APC.
“WFP is committed to assisting the Sudanese people facing dire food insecurity, but we cannot do our lifesaving work if the safety and security of our teams and partners are not guaranteed,” she added.
“The plaintiffs recognize the mandates of NBC to regulate broadcasting.
“Please, make your achievements in the NDDC an enhancement of your profiles, not a dent in your social and corporate standing,” he said.
Nigeria holds an index score of 05587.
He said the leadership of the Senate requires the service of experienced lawmakers who have the capacity to unite members of the Senate irrespective of the geopolitical zone and also ensure that good governance is delivered.
A.S Muhammad, the trial magistrate, said in the verdict that “the defendants had a common intention in publishing” the damaging article “and must have intended the natural consequences.”
From the beginning, we were clear in our minds that it would be unrealistic to attempt to solve all the problems that we had identified in one fell swoop.
According to the statement, sensationalistic reporting of such incidents will only create fears in the minds of the flying public, a development he described as “counter-productive”.
The development was believed to have contributed to Mr Adediran coming a distant third behind the winner, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of APC and the first runner up, Gbadebo Rhodes-Vivour of the LP.
The PDP has the upper hand in the figures so far.
He said no arrest was made yet and the police were not aware of any ransom paid before the release.
In the letter, a copy of which was made available to PREMIUM TIMES on Tuesday, the association said the governor ignored three correspondences from its chapter on the issue “despite the legislative workers plea.”
Based on this, he noted that entrepreneurs and civil aviation will have access to lease equipment at affordable rates within the country and that this is part of a roadmap.
“From the results already collated across the 69 Polling Units where the supplementary elections held and which are on the INEC Result Viewing (IReV) portal, Governor Fintiri clearly won the election,” he noted.
I am of the view that SERAP’s suit has merit.”
JAMB said concerned candidates can now print their slips beginning from Friday, 14th April, “for the rescheduled mock examination coming up on Tuesday, 18th April, 2023,”
One of the leaders of the protest, Samuel Nwanosike, the chairperson of Ikwerre Local Government Area, in a short video on Monday posted on Facebook called for the arrest and prosecution of Mr Cole.
He stressed that it was worrisome that police officers had now become victims of the actions of some uncultured elites.
The governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the 18 March election in Ogun State, Ladi Adebutu, says he has gone into hiding after an alleged threat to his life.
She however noted that more efforts are needed to advance the development of assistive technology for PWDS and to help them deal more with technology so as not to be left behind.
Atiku Abubakar, the presidential candidate of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the 25 February election, says Nigeria’s president-elect, Bola Tinubu, is encumbered by drug and identity scandals.
“God will not allow their evil plans for us to materialise,” he said in the interview.
The Biafra secessionist also has a pending before the Supreme Court, an application for bail with an alternative prayer for transfer of his custody from the State Security Service (SSS) to the Kuje correction centre in Abuja.
I believe that SERAP has the locus standi to bring this suit.
Because we’ve talked to all the authorities concerned and we’re on the same page.
The negotiations, PREMIUM TIMES gathered, are being led by one Abubakar, who is both trusted by Mr Gide and the parents.
The WHO also reported that most countries have made progress in integrating COVID-19 services into routine health service delivery.
INEC lawyer, Abubakar Mahmoud, a SAN, said the commission,on 5 May, filed its responses to the pre-hearing questions.
President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the postponement of the 2023 Population and Housing Census, earlier scheduled for 3-7 May 2023, to a date to be determined by the incoming administration.
On 13 October 2022, the Court of Appeal in Abuja, struck out the terrorism and treasonable felony charges filed against Mr Kanu by the Nigerian government.
Manchester City are through to the final of this season’s Champions League and they did it in style; hammering defending champions Real Madrid 4-0 Wednesday night at the Etihad Stadium.
PREMIUM TIMES reported that a group of ex-lawmakers from the North-central condemned the arrangement, noting that it will lead to the marginalisation of the zone.
Last week, Nigerian stocks shed 0.5 per cent as sell pressure depressed the valuation of a couple of stocks.
Following Mr Tinubu’s silence over the issue, a civil society group called for the police’s prosecution of the president-elect.
“When someone can be killed in firing openly amidst the security cordon of the police, then what about the safety of the general public?
“Any regulation of the media must be evaluated according to the guidelines and directives imposed by the right to freedom of expression.”
All of the allegations that were levelled against him have been either unproven or no evidence offered in support of them but they have run along for a while,” he said.
I have intentions to correct these.”
PREMIUM TIMES reconstitutes ombudsman board for public oversight of its journalism
Mr Gagdi on Saturday officially joined the race, and called for the zoning of the position to North-central, while Muktar Betara, an aspirant from Borno State, will declare his intention on Monday.
However, the flourishing of Sudan for such kind of beliefs and ideological persuasions has much more gravitas than those of the west.
While commending members of the diplomatic corps for the cordial working relationship accorded her in the last eight years, the first lady urged them to extend the same to the incoming administration.
Police arrest suspects for allegedly stoning driver to death in Ondo
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Mr Tambuwal, who was elected as governor on the APC’s platform, had on 1 August 2018, defected to the PDP less than a year to the expiration of his tenure.
After three years of the coronavirus pandemic, a new report by the World Health Organisation (WHO) has revealed that health systems in countries have started showing the first major signs of recovery.
This is as the affected family has confirmed improved management of the cases following PREMIUM TIMES’ earlier report of an alleged poor treatment of the patients and poor sanitation at the public facility.
The project is also able to provide technical support from production to marketing to individuals who are interested in the business of producing and marketing the special breeds of goats and sheep.”
In his ruling, the judge said the EFCC has power to investigate and prosecute the lawmakers, adding that the state law is in abeyance.
News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the facility, which comprises a skilled acquisition unit, rooms for adults and children, among others was named after the First Lady of the state, Rachael Umahi.
It is only then will serious-minded officers who have served the people selflessly and meritoriously and are not opposed to an examination of their books, and indeed Nigerians generally take him seriously.
In the last two days, over 100 persons, most of them women and children, have been massacred and butchered in cold blood by terrorists during an overnight unprovoked attack and their houses burnt down, including foodstuff, food barns and seedlings.
She explained that under the plan, the bulk of the investment is expected to be financed by the private sector while total employment is expected to rise to 203.41 million in 2050 from 46.49 million in 2020.
“Even when my state was unfortunately affected by what we call a political tsunami.
Police arrest 70-year-old man in Adamawa for allegedly raping two minors
We met a lot of dysfunctional situations in the commission which we as management and the board try to correct a few of them, especially the internal administration reorganisation.
Similarly, @Sosodef said: “This is absolute madness.
We are not only grateful to the courts for administering justice in a fair and just manner, but we are also overjoyed at the fact that what can only be described as yet another seven-year ordeal has been brought to an end.
While Mr Tinubu served as a senator in the botched Third Republic, Mr Kalu is the current senator representing Abia North Senatorial District in the ninth senate.
She said, “NAFDAC hereby implores members of the public in possession of the above product to stop the sale or use, as well as handover the product to the nearest agency office.”
Mr Benjamin said as soon as all ‘Ts’ are crossed and ‘Is’ dotted, results of candidates who have sat their papers since the examination kicked off on Tuesday will be released.
Sometime last year, a video circulated on social media falsely showing Volodymyr Zelensky, the president of Ukraine, announce a surrender after Russia invaded his country.
It added that Woodberry’s instruction, Individual B converted approximately $119,000 of the proceeds of the fraudulent wire transfer to Bitcoin.
The party is well known for that, and they will consider the opinions of governors, former senators and others.
They called for the review of the zoning of the Speaker of the House of Representatives in particular.
“In 2023, we will remain focused on executing our strategic initiatives, which are centred on pursuing additional opportunities to diversify our revenue sources while strengthening our core business,” said Mudassir Amray, Union Bank’s managing director, in a separate document.
Commending the initiative, Mr Onigbinde said everybody needs the media, emphasising the need for media organisations to continue to innovate for digital inclusion and accessibility for all.
22 Woji Road Port Harcourt, the court also ordered AMCON to take all necessary steps required to realise the assets of the obligor within the judicial division, by seizing and taking any money bank notes, cheques, bills of exchange, promissory note, and all forms of bonds of security for money, with a view to realising the huge outstanding debt.
Labour, for example, might be looking for mass transit for its members.
Supplementary Polls: INEC presents certificates of return to Fintiri, Tambuwal, others today
There is the provision of five per cent in terms of employment—we don’t know if INEC followed through by ensuring that five per cent of the over 1.5 million ad hoc staff that were recruited ahead of the 2023 general elections were persons with disabilities.
He said the board was alarmed by the situation and, therefore, will ensure that all registration is conducted in its offices to help the board understand the antics of those using forged results.
Babatunde Fashola says all but 13 kilometres of the Lagos-Ibadan expressway will be completed by 30 April
President Muhammadu Buhari, on Tuesday, inaugurated an advanced communication infrastructure, code maned, ‘Giwa 2 Project’ for the operations of the Armed Forces of Nigeria.
Justice Oyindamola Ogala ordered that Mr Osibanjo be remanded at the appropriate custodial centre, pending the filing and hearing of his bail application.
Meanwhile, Russia is seizing on Africa’s lingering distrust of the international order to further its appeal.
Mr Biu added that the lone crash involved a White Mazda Bus with registration numbers BDG993YG.
APC – 8, 662
With the divisive nature of the 2023 presidential election, the words of Mr Felix on 8 June 2022 are still ringing in the ears of many Nigerians.
A victim surcharge, meaning a fine, was also to apply, although the amount was not disclosed.
Police spokesperson, Muyiwa Adejobi, disclosed this at a press briefing in Abuja on Tuesday according to Channels TV.
The police spokesperson said the incident happened at about 8:45 p.m. along Umusiome Nkpor, a community in Idemili North Local Government Area of the state.
Man strangles friend to death, buries him in shallow grave
Romantic scenes were left to the discretion of viewers to imagine.
The Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) was honoured with the award for “the completion of the Enforcement of Order 172 on timeline to complete new connection to the grid,” while the World Bank Group (WBG) Nigeria Country Office, received the Impact Awards for Development Partner Institution.
He added that the board has partnered the British Council to make the process of verifying the Cambridge A/L Certificate seamless.
“Three National Commissioners are in Kebbi for the governorship supplementary.
The Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Kogi Command, has arrested a 41-year-old father for allegedly raping his 16-year-old daughter.
Although Ms Brooks did not appear for any of the deportation hearings, she was ordered removed in absentia in September 1992.
Salihu Lukman, the national vice chairman(North-west) of the party, in a letter dated 27 April and addressed to President Muhammadu Buhari, said he has filed a case against Mr Adamu and National Secretary, Iyiola Omisore, at the Federal High Court Abuja on the matter.
But prosecutors reminded him that he had told the district court Mr Massaquoi returned to Liberia in 2001 for his girlfriend.
The court had on 25 April rescheduled the case due to the absence of a defence lawyer, Uche Uzukwu, ad fixed Tuesday for continuation of trial.
“We therefore, agree that a fair economic structure, targeted at creating opportunities for all to succeed irrespective of sex, race/ethnicity, age, disability, creed, religion among others, is sine qua non for progress and development.”
“So, we now want to refine it, because there are cases of enforcement officers going to companies to tell the company ‘well, you have 1000 workers, but you can pay for only 100.’
Chidinma Ikeanyionwu, a media aide to the Commissioner for Women and Social Welfare in the state, Ify Obinabo, disclosed this in a statement on Saturday.
In serial widowhood, the widow is seen as involved in matricide, until she proves otherwise.
The elections were declared inconclusive due to Issues including but not limited to over voting and violence leading to disruption of voting at some polling units.
P&ID was set up in 2006 by Brendan Cahill and Michael Quinn, a pair of Irish businessmen who had been working together since the 1970s and had previously secured contracts from Nigeria’s ministries of Defense and Police Affairs.
Although both legs were played at the same venue, Inter under Simone Izghazi showed they controlled the Northern Italian City.
“I have considered SERAP’s arguments that it is concerned about the attendant consequences that are manifesting on the public workers and pensioners of the states who have been refused salaries and pensions running into several months on the excuse of non-availability of state resources to pay them.”
Rotimi Ogunesan, SAN – CHAIRMAN
“Following extensive deliberations, the Commission collectively resolved for Compulsory Retirement of *Alkali Safiyanu Muhammad Dabi* for collecting a bribe of Fifty Thousand Naira (50,000) from a litigant who appeared before him when he was at Upper Shari’a Court, Birnin-Kudu.
“I quite agree with all of you that the failure of such nominees to appear is an infraction or violation of the laws of this House, especially as it relates to the MDAs.
In the same vein, NDLEA operatives in Kaduna on Thursday 13 April raided a clandestine laboratory where mist potassium citrate was being produced in a residential apartment at 16 Sabon Gari, Zaria.
Mr Tinubu reportedly backed Godswill Akpabio (South-south) and Barau Jibrin (North-west) for the senate president and deputy respectively.
Mr Obi’s visit to Mr Soyinka’s comes days after the latter came under intense criticism on social media by the supporters of the LP candidate, popularly known as” Obidients”, after he faulted the remarks by Datti Baba-Ahmed, vice-presidential candidate of the LP, saying they contained “fascistic language”.
Mr. Soyinka, who spoke on Channels Television’s Roadmap 2023 programme, also blamed President Muhammadu Buhari for enabling the CBN governor.
Among them were the governorship elections in Adamawa and Kebbi States.
A coalition of elected members of the House of Representatives has promised to back the ruling party, All Progressives Congress (APC) on its decision on the zoning of the principal offices of the House.
“It is not like we will not accept patients in terms of emergency, but we will reduce the rate of admission, and patients that are due to be discharged will be discharged at this time,” he said.
Mr Gumi said those arrested for electoral violence and malpractices should be prosecuted to serve as deterrent to others.
We advise that you kindly delete these messages and do not entertain calls of this nature.
According to him, seven years later, its fighting power has increased significantly, making it fourth in ranking among African militaries as against seventh in 2015.
So, I can tell you that whatever part of the country you have emerged from, you are best in class and your people must have seen something outstanding in all of you.
However, the US was able to broker a partial ceasefire that has now been extended by the fighting parties even as fighting continues.
Emefiele must stay at his job to give full accounts of all that transpired under his watch to the incoming administration.
Apart from Mr Betara, several aspirants for the speakership position have been campaigning while awaiting the decision of the party.
Speaking on behalf of all the 36 state governors and under the auspices of the Nigerian Governors Forum, NGF, Sokoto State Governor Aminu Tambuwal commended ” Mr Chairman and the Vice President for leading the council very very well.
By the special grace of God it will fly.And don’t forget we didn’t start today.
As the President-elect of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, I also hope that during your reign, the excellent bilateral relationship between Nigeria and Britain will continue and even become stronger in the interests of our two countries.
Mr Tsammani adjourned the petition until Thursday for continuation of the pre-hearing session.
APC, INEC ask election petition court to dismiss Obi’s petition challenging Tinubu’s victory
Responding, the APC asked the court to dismiss the suit on the ground that Mr Obi, the 1st petitioner, lacked requisite “locus standi” to institute the petition because he was not a member of LP at least 30 days to the party’s presidential primary to be validly sponsored by the party.
He added that 30 of the rescued victims who were injured have been hospitalised while the remaining were reunited with their families.
He argued that as a public agency, INEC’s actions, records, and decisions can be checked by the court.
INEC has, however, distanced itself from the action of the resident electoral commissioner.
Mr Edafe, a deputy police superintendent, who said the arrests were intelligence-driven, identified one of the suspects as Nyero Sunday, 29.
The Police in Niger State said they have arrested two suspected kidnappers in connection to the killing of Abubakar Yahaya, the village head of Gusasse in Bosso Local Government Area.
Usman Ajibola Owoyemi (Triple 44 Academy)
“In Akwa Ibom, Cross River, peacocks are recognised as nkanda.
Mr Obi, the presidential candidate of the LP in the 25 February election is currently challenging the declaration by INEC of Bola Tinubu of the APC as the winner of the election.
He, however, expressed regret that an unprecedented shortfall of more than 50 per cent in global malaria funding is now holding countries back from maintaining life-saving malaria programmes, despite the historic pledge.
Police kill suspected kidnapper in Adamawa, rescue 2 victims
But the police further investigated the allegation and lodged an amended charge of 14 counts dated 6 February against the two men.
“At the same time, other governors launched and successfully executed housing projects across most of our 36 states, and so did members of the private sector,” he said.
They are held every four years and last for 17 days.
He enjoined Nigerians across the divide to support the incoming administration which he hoped would be a government of national unity where no section of Nigeria would be marginalised or short-changed in the scheme of things.
Buhari sacks NIPC boss, Saratu Umar
“FEC today approved the granting of Nigerian citizenship by naturalisation to 317 applicants and Nigerian citizenship by registration to 68 applicants.
A 14-year-old secondary school student was reported killed and many other persons missing after a flood swept Sagamu following a downpour in Ogun State.
Mr Abdullahi told reporters that some of the reasons Mr Goje was expelled was his failure to attend presidential campaign rallies in the state, boycotting campaign activities of the party in his area, zone and state, and supporting opposition parties among other issues.
“All candidates for the rescheduled Mock-UTME are to visit https://www.jamb.gov.ng and click on “Supplementary Mock UTME Slip Printing” on the menu bar to know the time and venue of their examination.”
Four more students of FGC Birnin Yauri regain freedom
• Titus Tartengar Zam – Benue North West
“In the process, the vehicle initially slowed down in compliance with the directive before eventually picking up speed and dashing off to evade the officers on duty.”
He said the police reported pockets of violence scattered all over the country but they were not substantial enough to discredit the polls.
The body of the driver could be seen lying beside the upturned commercial bus in a video shared by the agency.
But JAMB has blamed the applicants for adopting a last-minute rush, saying for the first few weeks of the registration period, it recorded low patronage.
We have reconfigured the BVAS for optimum performance.”
Core inflation could turn out more persistent than anticipated, requiring even more monetary tightening to tame,” it added.
Mr Shehu also mocked Mr Ortom for losing his senatorial bid to represent the Benue North-west district, adding that the Benue electorate “rejected” the outgoing governor and the PDP governorship candidate, Titus Uba, he (Ortom) supported.
“Well, I’m a civil servant and I am not supposed to give any… It will be better for you to speak with either the permanent secretary or the honourable commissioner for health.
In addition, Mr Kanu also asked the Supreme Court to restore the execution of the appellate court’s verdict of 13 October, freeing him.
But above all, we have maintained a non-violent stance in our bid to seek redress for our demands.”
His brother Ashraf, who was in jail in the Bareilly district, was also brought to the city to be questioned.
“Thankfully, we must acknowledge the work that has been done by the law enforcement agencies, especially the Chief of Defense Staff and his team.
Simon Ridley of UNDP Nigeria said the organisation is in the commission to explore how it can collaborate, partner, support and strenghten the ongoing police reforms in the country.
It called on the government “to immediately and unconditionally release Yahaya Sharif-Aminu and drop all charges against him.”
He said it is a weather-based index assurance for crops and other agricultural products.
He pleaded not guilty throughout the pre-trial period, and the trial commenced on 10 June 2021 with cross-examination of the children.
He called on the national leadership of the party to call Mr El’Sudi to order to avoid creating unnecessary confusion in the party in the state.
Ghebreyesus said in the past 20 years alone, smoking has fallen by a third, maternal mortality has fallen by a third and child mortality has halved.
Ahmed also told the President and other FEC members present at the inauguration that with the expected improved capital accumulation, investment as a ratio of GDP is expected to increase from the current 29.40 per cent to 40.11 per cent by 2050.
Tobechukwu – Nathaniel Bassey and Mercy Chinwo
The Commissioner of Police, in the state, Idowu Owohunwa, also directed that all the officers involved in the act be identified, arrested and made to face disciplinary actions.
“The fact is that we had about four local government areas where we conducted elections and one major one was Ikono/Ini Federal Constituency.
She said that the parents were not in the same vehicle with their son but only came to the scene to see what was happening.
You are an ardent supporter of women in leadership.
“Secondly, the training was to enable you to have a firm grasp of all the rudiments involved in the protection of a civilian-mandated mission, ” he said.
“It is necessary to recall that we have continued over the years to demand that the salaries of core civil servants be beefed up to narrow the gap between their emoluments and those in other segments of the public service.
Mr Kalu says, if elected, he will promote and defend the constitution as well as foster a congenial and cordial relationship between the executive and the judiciary.
Election Violence: SERAP sues INEC over failure to probe governors, deputies
Tinubu scored 8,794,726 votes, Atiku had 6,984,520 votes while Peter Obi won 6,202,533 votes.
A former President of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) and emeritus Prelate of the Methodist Church Nigeria, Sunday Mbang, is dead.
The report, according to Romana St. Matthew-Daniel of IBA’s press office, is based on data accumulated for the 50:50 by 2030: A longitudinal study into gender disparity in law – NIGERIA RESULTS REPORT,
But Mr Yari, a former governor of Zamfara, insisted that he would contest for the position based on the constitution’s requirements.
Kenyan President William Ruto, former President of the African Development Bank, Donald Kaberuka and Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, Director-General of the WTO among others will also speak at the forum.
The president said that when he assumed office in 2015, his administration set out to dismantle the challenges it met on the ground by embarking on major reforms.
About a month before her elevation to the Court of Appeal, the judge was reported to have overseen a stormy court proceeding as a High Court judge in Ibadan in February 2014.
“While the LP continues to grapple with its myriad woes and crying wolf where none exists, the APC will stay focused and committed to forming a new government to be led by the visionary President-Elect, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, as he drives the Renewed Hope agenda, and consolidate on the many gains of the out-going President Buhari-administration,” Mr Morka added.
Sokoto gets first indigenous onion, garlic processing plant
This, he said, was critical to ensure that whatever formula the party came up with would be acceptable with minimum friction.
The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) says it has arrested 218 suspects with 5,610 kilogrammes of illicit drugs in Kaduna.
NNPP wins Fagge federal constituency in Kano
“We are faced with a situation where expenditure was done probably for more than six months or probably 80 per cent of the expenditure has been done and we need to know what has happened.”
Mr Rawlings said that the complainant fell down from the ladder and sustained an open injury on his right leg.
The evacuees had been unable to get into Egypt since last Thursday owing to logistics and diplomatic issues.
Nigerian Muslims felicitate Christians at Easter
He noted that Mr Malami’s decisions were taken un the “best interests of” the country.
The seven-storey building, under construction at Banana Island, Ikoyi, collapsed on Wednesday at about 5 p.m., while concreting was ongoing on the sixth floor.
The motion had yet to be heard as of the time of filing the report.
Lassa fever is a viral haemorrhagic fever that is primarily transmitted to humans via contact with food or household items contaminated with urine or faeces from Mastomys rats.
In the same vein, a Lekki Lagos-based businessman, Cyril Chidiebere, was on Friday arrested along with two of his freight agents: Mejabi Peter Sunday and Oyeyinka Babatunde over their involvement in the importation of twelve (12) parcels of Loud, a strain of cannabis, weighing 6.50kg, which was part of a consolidated cargo brought in from the United States of America.
He congratulated Muslims for the successful completion of the holy month of Ramadan.
Mr Olaseni-Ajijo said the traditional institution would continue to lend its voice to those of others, and through all available means of communication, bring their plight to the knowledge of the government.
With over 626,000 Instagram followers, Akorede Okunola, popular as King Saheed Osupa, is another Fuji musician who embraced the crossover culture.
The ruling party lost some seats in the National Assembly during this last election.
Governor Hope Uzodimma of Imo State on Friday secured the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship ticket for his second term bid.
In a video released on Tuesday, Mr Biden said his quest for reelection is in a bid to continue the battle for the soul of America.
Teams of specialised scientists and technicians will begin the final integration process and the radar testing phase.
Mr Obi and the Labour Party are asking the presidential election tribunal to disqualify Mr Tinubu based on a 1993 Court ruling in Illinois.
Buhari decorates personal security officer with new rank, commends aides
Mr Abdullahi holds a Bachelor and Masters of Science degrees in Biochemistry from Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto, in 1996 and 2006, respectively.
The APC argued that “by the mandatory provisions of Section 77 (1) (2) and (3) of the Electoral Act 2022, a political party shall maintain a register and shall make such register available to INEC not later than 30 days before the date fixed for the party primaries, congresses and convention.”
“I urge the Sudanese parties in the name of Islam, Arab values, and humanity to announce a ceasefire during the Eid holiday in order to enable civilians to respond to urgent humanitarian cases,” Aljazeera quoted Ahmed Aboul Gheit, the league’s secretary general, as saying in a video message.
The late Mr Adeyemi was from the latter.
“It is no longer news that our forests have become spaces for criminal activities and hideouts for kidnappers, terrorists, ritual killers, and armed robbers who launch attacks on travellers.
Mr Innocent said the warning strike will commence at 8 a.m on Wednesday 17 May and end at 8 a.m Monday, 22 May.
prior to commencement of this action shall be maintained by all parties, Mrs Balogun ruled.
But in an open letter to the US President, Joe Biden, which was shared on her verified Twitter handle on Thursday, Ms Adichie said the US government ought not to have congratulated the president-elect given that the exercise through which he emerged winner was “flawed”.
He should know that 101 EFCCs cannot achieve in 10 years the corruption-fighting record that these alterations will achieve in a year.
The SSS arrested Tukur Mamu over his alleged relationship with terrorists involved in last year’s attack on a Kaduna-bound train.
Naira fell significantly against the United States dollar at the Investors and Exporters (I&E) window on Tuesday, a day after the currency recorded a slight gain at the spot market window.
A quick review of the geopolitical zones won by each candidate will reveal this much.
“The petition for review is denied,” the court said.
NEMA added that there are lots of challenges to overcome in Sudan due to the “volatile security.” It appealed to Nigerians to be calm and cooperate with officials that are helping to move our brothers and sisters to safety and eventually airlift them back home.
For instance, charities should be different from churches and Islamic organisations as well as non-governmental organisations that serve as watchdogs over government activities.
It is reported that the 2021 results from the Phase-IIb trial reported that R21/Matrix-M demonstrated high-level efficacy of 77 per cent.
Mrs Akinlawon said the project would gather data from across all sectors of the legal profession, and 16 jurisdictions, “with the aim of identifying the root causes of gender inequality, tracking progress over time, and providing practical conclusions and guidance.
Mr Haruna said the newly elected member died in the early hours of Saturday in Abuja after a brief illness.
12:24pm: Labour Party’s lawyer, Livy Uzoukwu (SAN), announces appearance.
Senate Presidency: Over 70 former senators back Akpabio, Barau
Her applaudable character is Fade, who is best described as ‘noisily insistent’.
This is the second time Mr Tinubu will be travelling out of the country after he was declared president-elect on 1 March.
They are the incumbent Deputy Speaker, Idris Wase (APC, Plateau), Yusuf Gagdi (APC, Plateau), Muktar Betara (APC, Borno), Sada Soli (APC, Katsina), Tunji Olawuyi (APC, Kwara) and Abubakar Makki (APC, Jigawa) have all declared interest.
Police demote officer filmed slapping motorist in Rivers
The police said they were committed to promoting the rule of law in Rivers State and appealed to residents to report cases of human rights abuses.
That is the essence of SERAP’s suit.”
14 quick points about the five judges of the Presidential Election Petition Court include some high-profile cases some of them have handled.
Also addressing the ceremony, Chairman, Ekiti House of Assembly Committee on Education, Bode Adeoye, pledged Legislature’s readiness to initiate legislation to institutionalise the programme for sustainability.
Mr Ahmed made his position known while answering questions from journalists at the 6th Annual Ramadan lecture series and prayer for the nation, organised by the Ashraaf Islamic Foundation, on Saturday in Abuja.
For any complaint about Premium Times’ journalism, do email our Ombudsman Board using the address complaints@premiumtimesng.com.
The National Association of Nigerian Students in Sudan (NANSS) has appealed to the federal government for the evacuation of its members.
A UK court Friday sentenced Nigeria’s former deputy senate president, Ike Ekweremadu, to nine years and eight months in prison.
Ms Williams, who disclosed this in a statement in Jalingo, explained that the alert became necessary following the wide circulation of the fake account with the name of Corps Marshal Dauda Biu.
“We went ahead to the Lagos Island Maternity Hospital, and it was the same result.
“In fact, there are some of them that we are thinking of demolishing outrightly.
President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday in Abuja launched a new long-term national development plan, the Nigeria Agenda 2050 (NA 2050), which aims to ensure that the country attains a Per Capita GDP of $33,328 per annum, placing her among the top middle-income economies in the world by 2050.
Investigations are still ongoing over the matter, sources said.
I have always lived my life in the most law abiding manner.
Although the remedy is clear – greater communication, consultation and coordination – the nature of the beast means progress will be slow.
“These miscreants who took over the office do not have the authority to control this matter, but we here have the authority and law to be in charge of the party and we affirm Abure.”
“I wish to once again convey the military high command commendations on the unrelenting efforts of troops and other security agencies in the various theatres of operations across the country.
2023 Qur’anic recitation closes at State House Mosque
Mr Abure was accused of forgery and perjury – an allegation he denied.
Nigerian journalists are in perpetual danger, and we are urging the incoming government to embrace a new attitude by deliberately improving the operational environment of journalists and the media.
Mr Ahamefula runs a local brothel.
“Supplementary elections cannot take place in polling units where results have already been announced and uploaded to the INEC IREV portal, we will not be a party to this electoral fraud by INEC in connivance with the PDP,” he said.
Atiku raises the alleged dual citizenship of Mr Tinubu in Nigeria and Guinea in a fresh Court filing.
“We agreed to meet on Monday and Tuesday (15 and 16 May).
EXCLUSIVE: London Court jails Nigerian three years for flogging son
He said NNPC is deploying carbon-reduction initiatives to gradually decarbonize its operations and improve its compliance with global emission reduction as part of our sustainability strategy.
The Governor of Ebonyi State, Dave Umahi, has pulled out from the race for Senate President.
A blockchain is a decentralised, distributed and public digital ledger used to record transactions across many computers.
Mr Ukegbu, an inspector, was said to have travelled home for the Easter celebration, but was abducted on Saturday from his house on arrival, PREMIUM TIMES learnt.
Senators- elect from the North-central have said the least position worthy of the zone was that of the deputy president of the Senate.
Michael Freeman, Ambassador of Israel to Nigeria has reassured of the country’s commitment to support Nigeria develop applicable technologies to boost her fight against climate change.
Mr Oyeyemi, a superintendent of police, said the suspect was arrested on Friday at the Ijade-Iloti area of Ijebu-Ode.
However, it has yet to form a comfortable majority in the 360-member House of Representatives as it currently has about 162 members-elect.
14 quick points to note about presidential election petition judges
Police officers and officials of other security agencies have been the target of deadly attacks mainly in the South-east and South-south by gunmen said to be part of Biafra agitation in the two regions.
The alleged misappropriation happened in May 2015, the month Mr Kwankwaso left office as Kano’s governor.
• Jimoh Ibrahim Folorunso – Ondo South
Mr Melemi said that Isa Musa NNPP scored 3,277 votes while Maisambo Barde of YPP scored 448 votes.
Senate also stood down consideration of report of 2023 budget estimates of the commission.
Cahill told the court that his and Quinn’s companies used “sham invoices” at least twice.
Mr Mohammed said nutrition is a critical part of health and development and also a key component of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
The novelist, in an interview with Arise Television on Tuesday, also criticised Nobel laureate Wole Soyinka over his comments about the Labour Party’s vice presidential candidate, Datti Baba-Ahmed.
Tax increase, import duty provisions will hurt Nigeria’s economy – CPPE
Last month, Nigerian Breweries said a drought of dollars and euros similarly ramped up its outstanding payable to trade partners abroad to €110 million, a debt that must be quickly redeemed to prevent the country’s biggest brewer from a partial or total shutdown.
The amended charge of 13 counts of money laundering, dated 3 October 2017, was filed on 6 October 2017.
The lack of plurality in sources of information is a serious obstacle for the functioning of democracy.”
e. Dr. Hameed M. Bello, Chief Operating Officer, Peoples Daily
FEC approves N495m for installation of railway scanners
Earlier, the defence counsel, Olukunle Oyewole, while moving his bail application dated 10 April, urged the court to grant bail to the defendant on liberal terms.
I want, here and now, to urge President Buhari to not approve any study leave or whatever kind of leave for any officer critical to the take-off of the incoming administration of Asíwájú Bola Ahmed Tinubu.
Nigeria’s Sudan question, By Festus Adedayo
Mr Idiong, a lawyer practising under the name, Law Partners & Associates, allegedly received N550 million and N450 million making N1billion, on 22 April, and 5 May 2014, respectively.
The prosecution counsel said the defendants made inciting and intimidating statements to the Church congregation that could cause alarm and breach of peace.
Nigeria needs brave leaders whose doggedness can help reduce the myriad of challenges; I am sure we can achieve this with you on board,
He was a member of the upper legislative chamber between 2015 and 2019 during which he was the minority leader.
“Ilaje has no motorable roads for heavy-duty trucks and the sea needs dredging to bring in the heavy equipment through the high sea because the sea was dredged last in 1975 or 1976 I think.
Pope Francis has come to the defence of the late Pope John Paul II who was accused in a recent documentary film of ignoring allegations of abuse by priests and protecting them by transferring them.
The police accused the duo of being members of the outlawed Indigenous People of Biafra and being responsible for the murder of three persons said to be members of a vigilante group in the Igbo-Ukwu Community.
It said the striking unions should have met with the management of agencies for alternative accommodation to all affected offices before going ahead with the strike.
He did not disclose reasons for the party’s U-turn.
Their legal careers have spanned between 39 and 41 years.
“Given the foregoing, it behoves on the appellant to defend himself in the money laundering allegations,’’ Ms Daudu-Williams held.
PREMIUM TIMES could not immediately reach Mr Melaye for his comments on the matter as his cell phone was switched off.
“Costs of locally assembled vehicles are beyond the reach of most Nigerians, contrary to the assurance given by the government at the inception of the auto policy,” he said.
Themed: “The Big Catch-Up”, WHO said it is “working with partners to accelerate rapid progress in countries to get back on track to ensure more people, particularly children, are protected from preventable diseases.”
In yet another briefing, the Minister of Science, Technology and Innovation, Adeleke Mamora, said the cabinet approved a National Technology Action Plan for Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation in the country’s most vulnerable sectors.
“I think that it’s not a useful criticism, I should say first of all that I have never been fazed by criticism.
“Mongabay is delighted to welcome Abdulkareem Mojeed, Priscilla Misiekaba-Kia and Vitor Prado dos Anjos as our newest cohort for the Conservation Reporting Fellowship Program.
Mr Aregbesola said the beauty of all the interventions in consonance with other reforms in the NCoS would obviously translate to security, peace and tranquillity in and around the centres and, ultimately, the entire country.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the 2023 FIFA U-17 World Cup will be the 19th edition of the biennial international men’s youth football tournament.
In his speech, the deputy speaker said the party betrayed the aspirants by micro-zoning the offices without consultations.
“The action of the defendant was considered an intention.
His fate is expected to be sealed by the three-judge panel in September.
Also, since 1999, the least position the region has taken is Speakership.
Only about 30 per cent of members of the Ninth National Assembly are going to 10th Assembly.
EFCC Urges Court to Refuse Convicted Ex-NIMASA Director, Agaba’s Application in Alleged N1.1bn Fraud Trial
Buhari swears in six permanent secretaries
NAN reports that the government of Cross River in a statement signed by the Head of Service (HoS), Timothy Akwaji, had lifted the embargo on promotion in the state’s civil service from 2016 to 2023.
The current Deputy Speaker, Idris Wase, who is also one of the aspirants for the position, stated this on Monday at the official declaration of Muktar Betara for the position.
Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi State says that members of the Ebonyi House of Assembly forfeited their three-year constituency project funds for the completion of the state’s new international airport.
Mr Buhari, represented by Boss Mustapha, the secretary to the government of the federation, explained that for decades, Nigerians were told that it would be near impossible to pass the bil because of vested interests,
Strike: Ikpeazu orders payment of salaries to Abia workers, gives reason for delay
Another lawyer, Vincent Adodo, said the charge of robbery cannot succeed in court without evidence of the use of force.
ANALYSIS: The impact of a Third Force on Nigeria’s Democracy
IDA is a part of the World Bank that helps the world’s poorest countries.
Also, the Deputy Speaker, Idris Wase, in a statement by his aide, Umar Puma, expressed expressed grief over the passing of Mr Maihanchi.
The group said it had at various times informed Nigerians that its Secretary-General is Okey Emuchay and that Mr Isiguzoro “is a meddlesome interloper who uses the hallowed name of Ohanaeze Ndigbo for narrow interests.”
“In furtherance of the above, the team of operatives on patrol led by one Inspector Stanley Ikhine, flagged down an ash-coloured Lexus 350 Jeep with a faintly inscribed worn-off number further arousing suspicion from the officers on watch.”
A Lexus SUV vehicle believed to have been used to abduct the slain officer has been recovered by the officers who found the inspector’s corpse.
After listening to the arguments, the panel advised Mr Ozekhome to withdraw his applications to pave the way for a speedy hearing of the main suit.
“ The Apex Court in its judgment resolved conclusively the APGA leadership dispute in favour of Chief Edozie Njoku as the undisputable chairman of the party whose purported removable as national chairman was declared null and void by the apex court.
“Through one of Tinubu’s aides at that time, who is now a minister in the government of Nigeria, I facilitated a meeting between President Conde and Tinubu.
We must avoid all these.
I plead with the court while we await the trial date to allow him to be remanded with the police.
Besides, people from the neighbouring local government areas of Mbo, Okobo, Urue-Offong Uruko, and Udung Uko also depended on the three banks for their transactions.
It is most bewildering that a privileged Nigerian-born writer, Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie born in Enugu, Nigeria in 1977 but now lives in the United State of America, has decided to paint her country of origin “black”.
Ms Angela also noted that getting assistive technology for PWDs is a major challenge that TheCable is trying to address.
The defendant pleaded not guilty to the charges.
“And I use the word costly deliberately because what this means is that, the 10th Assembly, we must make provisions immediately for capacity building for new members of the National Assembly If we want to achieve our goals and set targets,” he said.
The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) says it is determined to conduct transparent, fair, equitable, just and conclusive elections in the Saturday supplementary elections.
The governor who was responding to the litany of challenges reeled out by the chairmen of NLC and his TUC counterpart, said he recently raised the salaries of workers by 10 per cent to cushion the effects of inflation on workers.
Court adjourns Nnamdi Kanu’s suit against SSS
The total votes cast in Lagos was 1.1 million; in Plateau, 1.08 million; in Bauchi, 1.03 million; and 1.02 million in Jigawa.
“Individual B then sent the Bitcoin to PONLE’s Bitcoin wallet.”
The reason for his arrest remained unknown although his party claimed it was for alleged impersonation.
The others in the race include: Deputy Speaker Idris Wase (APC, Plateau), Yusuf Gagdi (APC, Plateau), Sada Soli (APC, Katsina), Tunji Olawuyi (APC, Kwara) and Abubakar Makki (APC, Jigawa).
This was contained in a statement issued by the Media Office of the Chief Whip of the Senate on Monday in Abuja.
The RRS Unit boss, Mr Victor said, also told the panel that he did not meet Mr Asadu when he returned from his trip.
Please also inform the bank of these incidents immediately after they occur.”
Jigawa governor-elect promises to consolidate on achievements of predecessor
It would be recalled that the state government recently set up a panel to look into communal and religious issues causing unrest in the town but the committee is yet to submit its report.
A contingent of 20 players and 10 officials departed the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja, on Saturday night
The aggrieved lawmakers said the APC betrayed them by micro-zoning the offices without consultations.
The President-elect, Bola Tinubu, has congratulated two distinguished Nigerian academics in the United States, Jacob Olupona and Mohammed Pate, over their election into the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
“It is because they extended their building and ate into the neighbourhood structure, which eventually collapsed on the artisans,” said the FEMA chief executive.
To settle the debt, Nigerian Breweries is looking unto Heineken NV, its parent company, to convert the credit to an intercompany loan, a lifeline the consumer goods giant hopes to get around May.
Trouble began on Wednesday after court officials opened the courtroom to lawyers and litigants for the day’s proceedings.
They asked the court to determine whether the 1st – 6th defendants “being political appointees/public officers currently in the service of the Kogi Government, can validly participate in the convention or congress of the APC for the purpose of vying for the nomination as governorship candidate for the Nov, 11 Governorship election.”
Mr Yushau and NNPP are seeking the court to set aside the decision of the National and State House of Assembly Election Petition Tribunal which claimed lack of jurisdiction to stop INEC from conducting the supplementary election.
Ahmed Usman-Ododo has emerged as the governorship candidate of All Progressive Congress (APC) in Kogi State.
So, it depends on the budget they have.
“It is shocking that after the FEC, the highest ruling body in the country, had done this, that anyone would be signing an MOU on behalf of the NDDC and the Federal Government of Nigeria for the same project in 2023 without due process nor approval by the FEC in the twilight of President Muhammadu Buhari administration.
The envoy observed that 75 years ago, Israel’s first Prime Minister, David Ben-Gurion, identified solar energy as priority area Israel could lead globally, through provision of sustainable, clean and accessible energy.
Asked if he would be probing his predecessor against the backdrop of his letter to the Benue Investment Property Company, warning them of financial transactions with the incumbent governor, Mr Alia said:
“We are vehemently opposed to such calls as they are not in tandem with the rule of law which is the bedrock of democratic governance,” he said.
“Increased budgetary provisions should be given to capital expenditure.
Police to demolish, renovate dilapidated structures in barracks – Official
She spoke on the need for medical/psychiatric evaluation of police officers for early detection of illness and prevent sudden deaths while in service.
After a six-week trial at the Old Bailey in London, the couple alongside a medical doctor, Obinna Obeta, were found guilty of the charges against them.
Users can customise every element of the fake tweet, including date, time, number of likes and retweets, username, and Twitter clients, such as Twitter Web App, iPhone, Android, etc.
But when asked if they might have been obtained by corrupt means, he said: “Probably before it got to my desk.”
Asíwájú Bola Ahmed Tinubu,
Without stating the reasons for her dismissal, Femi Adesina, Mr Buhari’s spokesperson, announced that the most senior director should take over the leadership of the commission in the interim.
“Though the 1st and 2nd respondents (Oyetola and APC) relied on BVAS reports obtained from INEC to prove over-voting, they did not, nonetheless, call petitioner’s witness 1 to speak to the reports, that is, Exhibits BVR reports from INEC’s back-end server.
It said the Chinese embassy in Abuja has now urged its citizens to “strengthen the civil defence, physical defence.”
‘‘Furthermore, implementation of the Act will lead to consolidation and further development of the gains recorded by Nigeria’s digital economy, in the last four years, in the areas of contribution to GDP and increased revenue generation, among others,’’ he said.
New York, April 28, 2023—Nigerian authorities should revise recent statements falsely characterizing CPJ’s research on the press freedom situation in the country, the Committee to Protect Journalists said Friday.
“Other achievements include deactivation of about 294 illegal refining sites and still counting, destruction and evacuation of illegally refined diesel, kerosine and crude oil and destruction of several pirates as well as kidnappers’ camps.
“Breaking: @inecnigeria has declared Senator Aishatu Dahiru Binani the winner of the Adamawa State governorship election.
The agency made this known in a statement by Joe Abuku, head of communications at NASSCO.
Mr Soroh said governments and the public health community must work together with industry to take further action and support measures that will enable continued innovation in the development of new antibiotics and vaccines to help curb the spread of AMR.
He said the decision was sanctioned by the institution’s Vice-Chancellor, Edward Olanipekun, a professor, and that it takes effect from Tuesday (today).
The inter-ministerial panel probed alleged inefficiency by Ms Umar, after reviewing a number of petitions by staff and directors of the commission.
The defence lawyer pointed out that the judgement was erroneously based on “the police (report that) had already found them (the two journalists) culpable long before they were invited to state their own side of the story.”
* A monetary sum of 6,740.00 Emirati dirhams (approximately $1,835.00)
‘‘For this, we remain grateful to the Almighty, and to citizens of Nigeria for sticking with our party,” he said.
The action contravened Sections 36, 71 and 105 of the Immigration Act 2015 and is punishable under Sections 36(2) 105(1) of the Immigration Act 2015, it added.
“It might be less than honest, but it is the way we behaved,” Murray told the court.
The new lawmaker, Tunji Akinosi, says there is no iota of truth in the allegation
Atiku Abubakar, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) presidential candidate, claimed the fifth position.
The senate president lauded Nigerian workers for their patriotism and resilience as they marked the 2023 Workers’ Day.
In the video which has now gone viral, the nursing mother said she had gone out to get food to break her fast in the evening when the incident occurred.
"......My passion for nation-building has fuelled my desire to seek this office at this critical time when various divergent views of governance exist in different zones in the nation,” he said.
The Senate had on Tuesday directed the minister to stop the planned demolition of the offices of aviation agencies pending the outcome of the intervention made by its committee.
NDDC seeks approval of Reps for spent budgets of 2021, 2022
They are widening their base in the area.”
PREMIUM TIMES reported that the ruling party has yet to decide on the zoning of the presiding and principal offices of the National Assembly.
He commended some aspirants to the office of the speaker of the House who have rejected the zoning, saying they must ensure they pursue their objection of what he described as a teleguided arrangement to a logical conclusion.
Everybody knows the turnover rate has been very costly and this is without prejudice to anybody elected, costly in the sense that when you have only about 30 per cent of members of the ninth National Assembly going to 10th Assembly, you know that you have lost capacity.
In 2022, electricity generation in Ukraine fell by over 27 per cent due to the war.
Southwestern Ogun State recorded 23 per cent; Enugu 22 per cent; Ebonyi 21 per cent; Borno 20 per cent; Delta 20 per cent; and Imo 20 per cent.
"What we are expecting from you people is to give us a fair play, at least if nothing, to mention that a particular position is zoned and anybody in that zone can’t participate."
The president also received updates on developments at home from some government officials including governors of Borno and Yobe States.
The disclosure was contained in a Circular (HMFBNP/MDAs/circular/2023 FP/04) dated 20 April 2023, and signed by the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed.
He accused the government of unlawful demolition of the property and revocation of the certificate of occupancy.
So the fishers got lots of cash payment and became the custodian of cash as people came from different regions in the country to buy fish and crayfish.
Governor Inuwa Yahaya of Gombe State has pledged to continue to improve the wellbeing and welfare of workers in the state if sworn-in for his second term in office.
“The Commission have also advised all applicants to visit our Local Government offices where these documents are domiciled for inspection, while we work out modalities for inspection of other documents domiciled at the State office in accordance with available spaces but they insisted that the huge volumes of documents like ballot papers be brought to the state office.
• Ndubueze Patrick Chiwuba – Imo North
“And it is very expedient to point out that with the Muslim-Muslim joint ticket which was replicated with the choice of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and Senator Kasim Shettima, the parliament should reflect religious balancing.
“We are working with all needed authorities in this regard including the Ministry of Interior and the traditional institution under the leadership of our father, the Ooni,” Mr Taylor said.
PDP governors to host party’s governors-elect, Fayose, others
Court fines convict N100,000 for N20 million fraud
President Muhammadu Buhari has asked the Senate to confirm the appointment of Abike Dabiri-Erewa as the chairperson of the Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NiDCOM) for a second term in office.
Awoyemi is a prolific scholar who has attended numerous international and local conferences and presented insightful papers in his fields of specialisation.
He gave an assurance that his administration will clear all the challenges facing the Civil service in terms of pension and gratuities, among others, seeking for workers patience and understanding in the process.
Consequently, I will urge all Rivers citizens to come out en mass to receive our President-Elect and display the traditional Rivers hospitality as he commissions these legacy projects to God’s glory and the advancement of our development.
NEC also had a section of the meeting to hold the Annual General Meeting of the Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority as the Governors are the members of the NSIA Governing Council.
In a filing near the end of the English High Court trial in March, P&ID conceded that “during the proceedings, some evidence of corrupt or apparently corrupt activity within the ICIL group of companies has come to light.”
Confirming the development to PREMIUM TIMES Wednesday, the University’s Dean of Students Affairs, Azeem Ige, said the decision was taken as part of measures to address “the series of motor accidents within the campus.”
“Risk to jobs in the sector and its extended value chain including millions of MSMEs in its distribution and marketing chain and Downside risk to manufacturing sector outlook in the Nigerian economy,” he said.
(Be) loyal to the country because it is when you have a country that you can even exist as a lawmaker.
“We have not forced anyone out of the barracks.
She further argued that INEC usurped the powers of the election tribunal by nullifying the declaration originally made.
Mutual Benefits appreciated by 10 per cent to close at N0.33.
Over 400 people have been killed and thousands injured since the fighting began in Sudan between the army and the paramilitary RSF.
Mr Buhari has yet to give reasons for declining assent to any of the bills, as his tenure ends on 29 May.
A member of the PREMIUM TIMES editorial board, Tope Oriola, has received a national fellowship in Canada.
Following an order of Justice I. N. Buba of the Federal High Court Lagos Division, the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON) has taken over assets belonging to Glano Nigeria Limited over a huge indebtedness of over N2 billion.
No reprieve for pension thief Maina as Appeal Court upholds eight years jail time
57, Volume 110 at pages A245-247, dated March 23, 2023, laid to rest, the simmering tussle between the Palace and Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State, over who should be the custodian of the artefacts.
”Nigeria under President Buhari has collaborated and shared experiences with Jordan in tackling terrorism and its spread across West Africa,” the statement said.
He will do well to focus his thin attention and energy on dealing with the many allegations of criminal conduct of forgery and financial impropriety levelled against him by his own party,” he said.
Mr Tinubu scored 1.1 million votes (32 per cent) while Mr Obi got 315,107 votes (10 per cent).
Citing section 134 (2) (b) of the constitution, INEC contended that its declaration and return of Mr Tinubu “was not wrongful…having scored one-quarter of valid votes cast in 29 states which is beyond the constitutional threshold for declaration.”
“We do not understand why Air Peace and aviation should be selected for this kind of treatment.
Mr Ubah also faulted the zoning of the senate presidency position to the South-south by the APC, insisting that the South-east region deserves the position.
PREMIUM TIMES reported how the Senate was thrown into a chaotic session for minutes during the consideration of the report which was presented by the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Finance, Adeola Olamilekan.
Some of the Spanish cargo planes were carrying special forces and armoured vehicles to safely evacuate civilians if necessary, the minister said.
In a message to the company’s employees on Monday, LinkedIn Chief Executive Officer, Ryan Roslansky, said the decision was aimed at streamlining operations and broadening responsibilities to make decisions more quickly.
The psychoactive substances were recovered at the new terminal of the airport on Friday following the arrest of a passenger, Joshia Sunday, who was travelling on a Qatar Airline flight via Doha to Oman, Middle East.
Mr Abbas (APC, Kaduna) said this in Abuja when he inaugurated his campaign coordinators from old and new members-elect cutting across all political parties in the country.
Plateau Killings: Police arrest five suspects, recover firearms
Mr Akande said that the report showed that projects scheduled for implementation under the NPRGS for the year included the provision of 100,000 homes for low-income earners which would create 1 million jobs directly and indirectly.
The Nigeria Army says 6,251 newly-recruited soldiers would be deployed to counter activities of criminal elements.
12:53pm: APC’s lawyer, Lateef Fagbemi, says he has filed answers on behalf of his client to the pre-hearing questions of the court.
Mr Buhari advised APC in Kogi to embark on issue-based election campaign so as to ensure the party retains the state in the 11 November election.
He said the foundation is “a special-purpose vehicle to give back to society”, especially in education, health service delivery, employment generation, and religious institutions, among others.
INEC Returning Officer, Dauda Aminu, declared the results in Hunkuyi on Sunday, saying that Mr Faisal scored 22,993 votes to defeat his closest rival, Nura Abdulkarim of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), who polled 22,878 votes.
The Police Command in Ogun has arrested a suspected member of a ritualist syndicate, who allegedly killed and dismembered one Oyindamola Adeyemi at Ijebu-Ode on 28 January.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that two commercial vehicles were involved in the accident and the crash was attributed to dangerous driving and speeding.
“We are ready and willing to cooperate with the court,” Mr Fagbemi assured.
This newspaper however gathered that the governing board of the Commission had earlier accused the embattled official of “administrative ineptitude, financial misappropriation and lack of synergy” which the board claimed led to the constitution of “an administrative fact-finding committee to investigate the allegations”.
He was arrested in June last year for bringing a young Nigerian to the UK with a view to harvesting his organ to treat his daughter, Sonia, who is suffering from kidney disease and needed a transplant.
The new Commissioner of Police in the state, Dare Ogundare, made the announcement during a courtesy call on the Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Olubunmi Adelugba.
As a public servant at the Nigerian Export-Import Bank, she had been compulsorily asked to retire from the service on the infamous grounds of poor performance and lack of management competence.
It has never happened,” Mr Betara said.
Mr Ekere said what happened in the APC had caused “disillusion” among the party members in Akwa Ibom.
He died on Tuesday, aged 86.
The distribution was done in Ado-Ekiti under the Adolescent Girls Initiative for Learning and Empowerment Project (AGILE), a World Bank scheme.
Mind you, the Nigerian society is patriarchal.
And the lower court did agree with them when it acquitted him a little over a year ago on grounds that prosecutors had failed to prove his charges “beyond a reasonable doubt.”
“Now with those local and international successes in mind, the need has now arisen for Nigeria to indeed consolidate on the gains.
The report covers banditry, terrorism, communal clashes kidnapping and others.
“WhatsApp is 100 per cent free to use, has a great mobile app, and supports audio and video calls.
In 2011, the then-ruling party, the PDP, endorsed Mulikat Akande as Speaker, but Aminu Tambuwal connived with the main opposition party in the House to emerge in her stead.
The ex-lawmaker also reminded Mr Tinubu of the contribution of the North-central geopolitical zone, noting that the zone outperformed the North-west zone.
The minister further disclosed that the council approved N9billion for the procurement, installation, and inauguration of voice and data recorders in nine airports across the country.
Ms Adeyeye said Indomie noodles recalled in Taiwan and Malaysia are not “allied in Nigeria and therefore not registered in Nigeria.”
“My son, please help me,” she muttered to the reporter whom she thought was a worker in the bank.
Details of the approved cuts have not been confirmed but Mr Bozon told his colleagues he had sent a proposal to Geneva and that “sometimes in April, those to be affected will be informed and also some departments may be scrapped,” one source said.
This is a big house comprising the APC, PDP, LP and others, all of those (lawmakers in all the parties) will come together.
Another local source, Yahuza Sulaiman, said the village head, Ibrahim Aliyu, has been taken to the state capital, Kaduna for further investigation.
The governor, who is the chairperson of the Southwest Governors’ Forum, said the move to zone the National Assembly leadership positions by some interested personalities perceived to be close to Mr Tinubu manifestly lays “the dangerous foundation of distrust, needless suspicion even as it structures nothing but a combination of booby traps”, which he said must be avoided.
This motion should have been accompanied by facts,” he said.
The ongoing fights have led to the destruction of buildings and facilities in the already torn country including members of the diplomatic community.
Popular Disk Jockey, Ecool took to the stage to perform his famous hit with Davido ‘Ada’.
Short of this, Truth remains permanently elusive.
“We came here last year to evaluate, see the level of damage of the flood and promised to come back.
President Buhari prays that Mr Adenuga, who is Otunba Apesin of Ijebu-land, will grow in health, strength, and continual sound mind.
The trial continues on Thursday.
On May 6, Ethiopian authorities announced that Gobeze, editor and founder of privately owned YouTube-based broadcaster The Voice of Amhara, had been arrested in the neighboring country of Djibouti.
After the 25 February election, the party had 55 senators-elect but gained additional four seats during the supplementary polls.
Subsequently, the house replaced the suspended deputy speaker with Mandela Obasi, who was immediately sworn in as the new deputy speaker.
That has infringed on my right to freedom of religion.
“Despite the fillips from lower food and energy prices and improved supply-chain functioning, risks are firm to the downside with the increased uncertainty from the recent financial sector turmoil,” it said.
“For me, let me even assume it happened.
“And this was approved in the sum of N6.3 billion for a period of 24 months.
Mr Onifade, however, said Mr Obi has since returned to Nigeria.
“Innovate further to deliver improved solutions to end malaria that are tailored to those who need them most and Implement national strategies to accelerate progress against this age-old disease, by demonstrating leadership, adopting innovative and sustainable approaches, and scaling up national malaria programmes to deliver lifesaving tools to those at highest risk,” he added.
Mr Achumie urged members of the public to disregard any unauthorised list posted on social media or in online media but not issued by INEC.
Mayorkun, Skibii and Peruzzi also performed with the man of the night.
Mr Adah is 65 years old.
President Buhari only assented to 16, 5 of which are mainly clerical amendments of names of certain Local Governments,” the letter reads in part.
“We will reserve our objection to documents until the end of the trial,” Mr Olanipekun said.
He appealed to the “right-thinking and well-meaning people” to disown the “baseless data” while awaiting the results of the National Housing and Population Census 2023.
I will be the first to support it.
“The 38 houses at Sheikh Khalifa Ishaq Rabiu City, Kano include 19 Units of 3-bedroom bungalows; 5 Units of 3 Green roofs; 6 Units of 4-bedroom Duplex, 2 Units of 4-bedroom BQ, I Units of 4-bedroom Duplex and 5 Units of 5-bedroom duplex,” the EFCC said.
The Nigerian government has yet to show a willingness to implement the court’s decision.
The 109 senators-elect will be inaugurated on 13 June.
My zone was a no-go zone.
The judge said although two Federal High Courts in Rivers and Ekiti States had previously ruled that the EFCC lacks the powers to investigate a state’s finances, he would not hold such a view.
The president said his administration had made significant strides to enhance the capacity and capability of the armed forces to tackle the multiple of security challenges confronting the country.
The official said the students are being evacuated in batches.
But I am sure of his support.
I’ll respect the zoning of APC, but party must reward me
Mr Adeleke defeated Mr Oyetola, who polled 375,027 votes to come second in the race.
Ms McCain said that any loss of life in humanitarian service is unacceptable demanding immediate steps to guarantee the safety of those who remain.
Whilst we look forward to an era when there would be no single casualty during elections in Nigeria, however, the statistics show that 2023 recorded the lowest casualty rates ever.
The first-ever malaria vaccine, RTS, S or mosquirix, from British drugmaker GSK, was approved by the WHO in 2021 after decades of work.
Speakership Race: Why we’re challenging APC’s zoning arrangement – Gagdi
She said the book, titled ‘The Stolen Daughters of Chibok”, was released on 4 April in New York, United States of America (USA) by PowerHouse Books Inc and is being released internationally.
But after hearing arguments from the parties, the tribunal ruled that the seized cigarettes belonged to Mr Fagbewesa and upheld the £26,835 penalty against him.
He said the complaint had already been lodged at the Bwari Divisional Police Station.
This was disclosed in a press statement on Wednesday by presidential spokesperson Garba Shehu.
The Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE) has announced that it will commence a verification exercise for the payment of the agreed 16-month severance benefits to ex-staff of the defunct Power Holding Company of Nigeria (PHCN).
I did not see any reason that Datti Baba-Ahmed’s interview would have been tamed fascism.
We have gone through, in this state, a situation where a king was removed by the judiciary after being on the throne for over 22 years and I said to myself that not under my watch are we going to repeat the same mistake
Ahead of the Africa Climate Summit, to be hosted by Kenya between 4-6 September 2023, a specific focus was given to the climate topic, with a meeting of the Climate Overshoot Commission, and the launch of the Carbon Market Working Group by the Africa Europe Foundation, which was co-founded in 2020 by the Mo Ibrahim Foundation.
She explained that the committee is to work out a road map for the removal of the subsidy.
In 1984, he became the President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA).
Sudan Crisis: Another batch of evacuees expected on Sunday — NiDCOM
She only argued that the REAL ID Act’s framework for assessing credibility was controlling, the court said.
Rivers: Police officers who assaulted motorist arrive Abuja for ‘trial’
“It is our hope that your association with the Faculty of Law, Abia State University, will support its academic endeavours and provide the highest source of wise counsel in that discipline, given your pedigree and contacts”.
When is WAEC 2023 starting?
He also advised the government to engage the youth whilst also commissioning an inquiry to the past legislature.
The transnational nature of sedition committed by US resident against sovereign nations led to the enactment of the Alien and Sedition Acts (1798) which aimed to prevent “aliens,” or non-citizens, living in the United States from resorting to seditious acts or conduct, like Chimamandi did in her letter.
He expressed optimism that a Tinubu led administration would address critical infrastructural development, youth unemployment, women empowerment and the challenges facing the girl-child.
Mr Ojukwu commended journalists for courageously discharging their onerous responsibilities despite occasional harassment, intimidation, and destruction of their working tools by some overzealous security agents.
He said the country now ranks fourth in Africa as opposed to the seventh position it occupied in 2015 when he was elected president.
At the closing session, Mr Sulaiman praised the president for his patience and forbearance and for fighting corruption, terrorism and insurgency as well as the massive infrastructure he has put in place.
“The split-second glance of seeing the king is really important but I think the whole day as well … the idea of the nation coming together.
“In the course of the investigation, the suspects all confessed to being members of the dreadful IPOB/ESN syndicate terrorising the good people of Imo State and had a hand in the recent killing of five police officers and two civilians at Ngor Okpala (Council Area),” he said.
The National Assembly, in its preliminary objection, also contended that the suit was incompetent because pre-action notice was not served on them and that the plaintiff had no locus standi.
Seven people were burnt to death on Sunday on the Lagos-Ibadan expressway after a bus crashed due to what the FRSC attributed to a brake failure
Your engagement and involvement substantially changed the contours of our politics.
Early this month, the social media space, especially Twitter, was awash with controversy over a leaked telephone conversation (now dubbed “Yes Daddy”) between Mr Obi and the founder of Living Faith Church, David Oyedepo, a Bishop.
PREMIUM TIMES reported that only 24.9 million voters, about 29 per cent of the registered voters, turned out for the 25 February 2023 elections.
No reason was given for Mr Obaseki’s action, but there are speculations that the development may have signalled a power struggle within the administration.
At the hearing, Boston’s top federal national security prosecutor, Nadine Pellegrini, requested that Mr Teixeira be detained.
‘‘These remain major barriers to the growth of the ecosystem, particularly for early-stage start-ups.
The committee also reiterated that there was no ethnic segregation as speculated in some quarters and it remained focused on its mandate.
“No change in the overall policy direction regarding the petrol subsidy is envisaged by June 2023,” an official said.
Mr Lukman is seeking seven reliefs from the court, chief of which is that Messrs Adamu and Omisore should call NWC meeting and disclose the financial record of the party.
During the confirmation process, the president ordered a forensic audit of the operations of the organisation from 2001 to 2019.
A PREMIUM TIMES report showed that the Central Bank of Nigeria’s advances to the federal government rose 2900 per cent in the last seven years to N23.8 trillion, an unprecedented rise that violated the law, stoked inflation and worsened the country’s debt burden.
Court nullifies sections of CAMA 2020
The university’s students’ union via a statement signed by its President, Olayiwole Festus, a copy of which was shared with PREMIUM TIMES Tuesday, also condemned the development.
“The factors responsible for the scarcity of passports include the inability to set up passport producing factory in Nigeria as its production is done abroad,” he said.
MONROVIA, Liberia—A former soldier of Sierra Leone’s Revolutionary United Front (RUF), has contradicted other defence witnesses about when an accused warlord from the country was taken into a UN “safe house.”
“The list shall include any amounts subject to restitution.
Mr Fashola added that the claim was contained in the preface to the 2012 National Housing Policy signed by the minister then in charge of the Ministry of Housing three years before he took office.
Federal, state govts may not pay salary beyond June without subsidy removal – Obaseki
Mr Lam-Adesina of the APC polled 27, 338 votes.
A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and former commissioner for works in Kano State, Mu’azu Magaji, has warned that the APC may lose its strong support base of the North-west geological zone if the party did not zone the office of the senate president to the region.
Under the Supplementary Protection Measures (SPM) as it relates to the implementation of the ECOWAS Common External Tariff 2022-2026, the circular explained that the changes are effective from 1 May 2023 subject to a 90-day grace period for importers who had opened Form M before 1 May 2023.
• Nwoko Chinedu Munir Delta North
The Center for International Private Enterprise (CIPE) is a global organisation that works to strengthen democracy and build competitive markets in many of the world’s most challenging environments.
Nigerians have spoken with their votes in the election, and they spoke loudly and clearly.
Both leaders declined interviews with journalists at the end of the meeting.
“Why should the All Progressives Congress (APC) be bent on zoning the 10th Senate Presidency to the South, when we have competent hands in the North?
“With an average daily usage of 200km by existing BRTs, there is no need to fear that the buses can stop while in transit.”
“The only difference is that my own forefathers missed the boat that yours caught up with.
“Last night, the Nigeria Evacuation team in SUDAN received some buses to transport Nigerian Students to nearby borders in Egypt, before airlifting them to Nigeria, this has been sorted by the Federal Government through @nemanigeria and the Nigerian Embassy in Sudan,” NiDCOM tweeted.
The ruling party won in Borno, Gombe, and Yobe states.
Mr Asadu, unlike his sister, was not arraigned in court.
“We will be physically present at collection centres to prevent tampering with results from the Local Government Areas to the state.
Mr Ari, in making the declaration, attempted to usurp the power of the collation officer appointed by INEC.
He said the car was among five vehicles in a container marked TLLU 4840762.
NAN reports that Ms Dada revoked the bail she granted the defendant.
Mr Aruwan said this Wednesday during the presentation of a report on the state of insecurity in the state for 2022.
The president further directed the commission to continue with preparations for the conduct of the 2023 Population and Housing Census in order to sustain the gains already recorded and provide the basis for the incoming administration to consolidate these achievements.
“We understand that the ES asked them not to honour the invitation in defiance of the Minister’s directive.”
You delivered robustly in the federal elections and followed it up with the State House of Assembly – history will forever remember you kindly,” he added.
Mr Osibanjo was arraigned on a 16-count charge bordering on involuntary manslaughter and grievous harm.
The former governor said the matriarch died on Thursday in Abuja at the age of 90 years.
client) and foisting or the court, a fait accompli.
“FRSC is partnering with the World Health Organisation (WHO), Federal Ministry of Health (FMH) and United Nations Decade of Action on Road Safety and Injury Prevention (UNDARSIP) to mark the event with various activities.”
— Hadi Abubakar Sirika (@hadisirika) April 2, 2023
He further told reporters that it was at the moment that one of their relatives stepped in, raised alarm and began to tell everyone that he had raped the child.
Ms Gay is currently the Edgerley Family Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, at Harvard University, and will assume duties as president of the university in July 2023.
It is either they leave or we smoke them out of this state,” he said.
The former presidential candidate called on the Court of Appeal to stop Mr Tinubu’s swearing-in based on some unusual grounds.
Almost 1.6 million candidates seeking admission into Nigerian universities, polytechnics, colleges of education and monotechnics, are expected to take the tests before Tuesday 2 May.
The Director-General of FEMA, Abbas Idriss, confirmed this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja on Wednesday.
Mr Ahmed was also brought to the city to be questioned in other cases.
He also called for the resignation of Mr Omisore over the failure of the APC at the 2022 governorship election in Osun State.
Easter: Nigerian govt declares Friday, Monday public holidays
“He (Mr Ortom) cannot handover now.
IPOB under the leadership of Mr Kanu has repeatedly disowned the enforcers of the Monday sit-at-home in the region.
The state government had refused to entertain pleas for compensation for the demolished buildings.
The charge sheet, dated 4 April, indicated that only the sister was being prosecuted.
Perhaps because the matter of IReV use is now in court, INEC has not responded to Mr Mohammed’s claim.
Read NBA President’s statement in full
We want to do it right,” the APC spokesperson said.
The PSC spokesperson said the commission’s chairman had pledged to prioritise police officers welfare and deal decisively with cases of infractions where necessary.
The Chief of Defence Staff, Lucky Irabor, said the project was borne out of the fact that the entire fields of electronic warfare, information warfare, and cyber warfare were inter-related.
In March last year, the court ordered the Nigerian government to amend the controversial section 24 of its cybercrime law which is widely viewed as authorities’ weapon for muzzling citizens’ rights to freedom of expression.
Mr Carson said the presidential election was one of the most competitive polls in Nigeria and in Africa.
On 3 March, the minister had sent a letter to Chairman Basil Omiyi, informing him of the withdrawal of the CEO’s work permit as well as his visa and residence permit including a petition from a lawyer to the Seplat employees who made the allegations.
President-elect, Bola Tinubu, on Thursday in Abuja, met with the All Progressives Congress governors who paid him a courtesy visit and urged them to work with the party leadership and lawmakers on the election of principal officers of the National Assembly.
The police prosecutor told the court that Mr Doguwa allegedly committed the offence on 26 February at the Tudun Wada Local Government Area of Kano State.
The chairman's vehicle, a Toyota Prado SUV, and the AK-47 gùn of his police guard were taken away by the kidnappers.
Presenting DINA, the Project Lead, Mayowa Tijani, said the application is the newspaper’s commitment to promoting inclusion across all spheres in the country.
Union Bank’s annual profit doubles as trading income hits N24bn
“The objective is to expose members-elect to the functions of the National Assembly; its practices and procedures as well as the services available to them,’’ Mr Umoru stated.
ECOBANK also sought an order of interim injunction restraining the government from taking further steps “to further harass the applicant, directors and staff."
The suspects snatched the car in Delta State but were arrested in Ekpoma, Edo State while on their way to Abuja to sell it, according to the police.
The government said Hushpupi “flaunted his luxurious, crime-funded lifestyle on social media.”
The House asked INEC to develop a mechanism or software application where families who lost their loved ones can report the demise of a particular PVC number so that it can be duly deleted from INEC register.
Its’ PE ratio was 4.7x as of the end of the last trading session, while its EPS is N0.9.
Returning Officer for Zamfara Central senatorial district, Kabiru Abdullahi, said Ikra Bilbis of the PDP scored 102,866 votes to defeat Kabiru Marafa of the All Progressive Congress (APC) who polled 91,216 votes.
Independence Medal of the First Class Order Award by His Royal Highness King Abdullah of the Kingdom of Jordan.
On their part, representatives of the three quarters, during the event, expressed satisfaction with the coronation, adding that Mr Anikweze, a professor, who was earlier given certificate of recognition, could be the traditional ruler of elites with the government certificate and that Mr Okafor who reportedly inherited the throne from his forefathers remain the authentic “traditional ruler of the grassroots.”
11:26am: Mr Al-Mustapha’s lawyer, Sani Mohammed, has no objection to the withdrawal of the petition.
“These unpatriotic Nigerians destroyed properties belonging to the Igbo.
Yes I did not vote but my not voting does not mean I cannot comment in an election, I am a Nigerian citizen, and every Nigerian has a right to an opinion.
PREMIUM TIMES reported that Mr Maikyau’s delegation also met with the Commissioner of Police in Rivers during the visit.
The new Ohanaeze leader also vowed to ensure that the South-east gets an additional state, explaining that the South-east is the only region with five states in Nigeria.
It said that the allegations of non-compliance must be made distinctly and proved on a polling unit basis but none was specified or provided in any of the paragraphs of the petition.
“Nigeria is the only country we can call ours, hence the citizens, especially Muslims at this time, must work together and pray assiduously for continuous peaceful coexistence among the people,” the speaker said.
GO-UNI is a private university owned by the Catholic Diocese of Enugu.
However, operating profit still fell, taking a battering from a jump in administrative expenses from N5.2 billion to N5.9 billion.
Under intense cross-examination by Nigeria’s lawyer, P&ID figures addressed two decades of alleged wrongdoing in the West African nation, including but not limited to the gas dispute.
“While still grappling with the charade of March 18, the party will not hesitate to boycott the forthcoming supplementary elections if INEC insists on violating the 2022 Amended Electoral Act.
Susan was left alone with him.
In Kano State, the party lost 19 House seats and two senatorial seats.
Witnesses have told the Appeal Court and the Pirkanmaa District Court of Tampere, which a little over a year ago acquitted Mr Massaquoi of all charges because, prosecutors did not prove them “beyond a reasonable doubt,” that by the alleged killings, Mŕ Massaquoi “sent his captives to God.”
Speaking further, Mr Areghan said that the National Identification Number (NIN) was only made a component of the registration requirements, “but not compulsory.”
According to the lawyer, the Administrative Proceedings Committee as stipulated in CAMA, usurped the powers of the court to adjudicate on disputes that might arise from organisations under the supervisory roles of the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC).
Mr Ngige noted that the bill has passed through first and second reading, he was sure it would be shot down at the public hearing since the law prohibits forced labour.
All you need to do is upload videos and click a button.
Governor Sanwo-Olu blames the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing and National Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA) for allegedly granting extension of the line of Banana Island
The sum covers the supply and installation of ICT components for the 2023 population census and the development and implementation of mobile device management solutions
The remaining regions are North-west, North-central, South-east and South-south.
Elections will be held in 389 polling units across all the 23 LGAs of the state.
“It is also our demand that the Adamawa REC and any other parties complicit in this treasonable act should be arrested immediately and prosecuted to the full extent of the law.
PT: Maybe we can blame the lack of transparency in the activities of the National Assembly for the misplaced expectation.
The inability of INEC to upload presidential election results from polling units promptly is one of the reasons two opposition presidential candidates, Atiku Abubakar and Peter Obi, are challenging the results of the election.
c. Mr. Ken Ugbechie, Publisher, Political Economist NG
“Nnamdi (Emeh) also hacked into one of Mr Chibuike Martins Ekwueme’s (bank) accounts and fraudulently transferred a total of N47 million to his 14 different (bank) accounts,” he said.
A man who confessed to buying two “fresh human legs” for N20,000 has denied offering a bribe to police officers to evade arrest.
Mr Sharif-Aminu, 24, was sentenced to death by hanging in August 2020 by an Upper Shari’a Court in Kano, North-west Nigeria, for an allegedly blasphemous song he composed concerning the Islamic prophet, Muhammad.
He said officers and men of the police should always follow approved lines of communication.
Mr Otedola, who is the biggest shareholder of FBN Holdings, the parent company of Nigeria’s oldest lender FirstBank, said the close period would have ended in May, the originally scheduled deadline, if the original arrangement had not been altered.
“And in the longer term, it will contribute to the overall final goal of malaria eradication and elimination.”
The condemnation is contained in a statement released in Abuja by Mohamed Abdelmannan, the Sudanese Ambassador to Nigeria.
The judge, then, jokingly said Mr Rinamsomte should have avoided Mr Njoku who he knew was standing trial.
With the results from Obio/Akpor coming in, and with INEC announcing that Mr Tinubu scored 80, 239 votes against Mr Obi’s 3,829 votes, the APC candidate was now in the lead and was eventually declared the winner of the presidential election in Rivers State.
This has largely informed many African countries’ neutral stance on the Ukraine conflict.
He was subsequently transferred to the Zamfara police command after the incident, a lawyer, Bisi Adepoju, stated in a letter he sent to the Inspector-General of Police on 4 April.
The agreement signing was done in Lagos, South-west Nigeria, at a one-day Public Private Partnership (PPP) Submit organised by the NDDC.
He made the revelation via his Twitter handle following a report made by a road user in the state.
“However, federal law does not preclude review of constitutional claims or questions of law raised upon a petition for review filed with an appropriate court of appeals,” the court said.
Thank you, and congratulations again, as I look forward to seeing you at the National Assembly.
Mr Soyinka, who described the LP vice presidential candidate’s comments and those of the “Obidients” as “fascist”, said his utterances were a threat to the judiciary and therefore not acceptable.
“She saw the marks on his body.
Speaking further on the “ouster” of the court’s powers, he said “section 851 of the Companies and Allied Matters Act 2020 is hereby declared null and void for ousting the jurisdiction of this court.”
“They were giving out ( selling off) their goods at cheaper prices,” she added.
“Another contract that was approved for the National Population Commission was the contract for the development and implementation of mobile device management solution for the personal digital assistant devices to be used for the 2023 population census,” Mr Shehu said.
He was alleged to have, among others, convinced the terrorists to discuss ransom payments with individual families of the hostages of the train attack instead of the Chief of Defense Staff Committee set up by the federal government for his personal financial gain.
Adebanjo sanctioned two National Officers because they made statements in the papers.
The suspension is a fallout of a power struggle among lawmakers of the Abia State House of Assembly.
Such also is the respect that the world  has for the relevant experts from Nigeria that there is hardly any of the global associations that does not have a Nigerian on its leadership team.
In the process, he said, they sacked workers and party members who were at the secretariat at the time.
They were a validation of the outcome of the presidential election which incidentally took place on the same day and at the same time as the legislative elections.
“I admire him, I respect him as a thinker, and a writer, and I think everyone should read ‘The Man Died’ but at the same time, I disagree very strongly with him on this particular issue, I watched his interview twice thinking that I was missing something.
“In 2020, the WHO Africa Region received certification for eradicating wild polioviruses.
But now a president has emerged, a Nigerian president not an APC president.
The NAFDAC boss said the lot Number: NPINPB 1003, the UPC code: 728175521891, the expiration date is Aug. 16, 2025, for PrimeZen Black 6000mg being marketed online as a dietary supplement for male enhancement and is packaged in a blister card with one capsule.
Mr Shettima commended the author of the book while expressing the willingness of their administration to be gender-friendly.
Mr Magaji dismissed a call by the spokesperson of the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP), Abdulmumin Jibrin, who protested against the zoning of the seat of the senate president to the northwest region.
The letter read in part: “Our attention has been drawn to an advertisement placed by the NCC, titled ‘Availability of Frequency Slots in the 600 MHz Spectrum Band’, published on March 23, 2023.
He asked them to imbibe the essential message of Christ’s ministry and truly begin to love fellow Nigerians as they love themselves.
Responding, Mr Kalu, an APC senator, commended Atiku for finding time to visit him in his time of grief.
Hatred has no redeeming values.
The president believes that Mr Adeleke’s easy going outlook on life has turned into an asset, with a huge following that cuts across all ages.
The court then fixed further hearing to 15 May.
In Units 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 of Ward 5 (Port Harcourt Township, election commenced at 8:30 a.m. but as at 11:26 a.m. only few voters had come out to cast their votes.
“And since the soldiers came and picked the Madaki and some suspects, his phone number was not connecting, but someone I was able to communicate with this morning told me that he is being questioned in Kaduna about the kidnap incidents in Janjala,” he said.
The state government said this on Wednesday in a statement by the spokesperson of the state ministry of physical planning and urban development, Mukaila Sanusi.
We must finish this journey together.
But reacting, Alex Ogbonnia, the spokesperson of the Ohanaeze Ndigbo, told Leadership newspaper, on Tuesday, that the group adopted “doctrine of necessity” in appointing the new president-general.
It is a facility that provides short courses for farmers and extension workers to learn how to provide services.
Mr Ali explained that while in captivity, 26-year-old Esther was forcefully married to one Garba, also known as Garus, a Boko Haram fighter who was killed during troops’ offensive operations on terrorists’ enclaves.
In Nigeria, she told Mary (her father’s partner, who she warmed up to), who took her to her grandmother, and the police in Nigeria were informed but did nothing in response to the report.
“We will no longer tolerate the often intimidation and deployment of brute forces against the party and their personnel.
He said the fighting power of the nation’s army was at low ebb as at May 2015, adding that the situation had tremendously improved with remarkable progress in the fight against insurgents, militants, oil bunkers, kidnappers and other criminal elements in the country.
“The appellant had a primary burden to prove the fact asserted by them in their petition.
He also called on the police to investigate the exercise in Adamawa State where the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) illegally announced a winner of the governorship election while collation had not been concluded.
The agency, in a short message shared with PREMIUM TIMES by its Director General, Mojisola Adeyeye, a professor, confirmed that indomie noodles remain banned in Nigeria.
The battle for influence in Africa will not be won by supporting the same undemocratic processes for which China is criticised.
In the letter, she maintained that “all HND holders terminate on SGL.14 in the Public Service; whether with or without Professional Qualification.”
Nigerian Elections: Law professor counters Chimamanda Adichie in letter to Biden, Trudeau
He noted that Mr Buhari and several other APC bigwigs lost their states during the election.
The media chat was aired by Channels television and monitored by PREMIUM TIMES.
But the Global Firepower ranked Nigeria fifth position in 2015.
The following year, 2001, President Obasanjo also vowed that the NDDC Act would never become law in Nigeria as passed by the National Assembly.
The 16-year-old centre-forward, who plays for HB Football Academy in Abuja, draws inspiration from past U-17 players who graduated to represent Nigeria at the highest level.
Ten months after, WHO says Mpox no longer health emergency
According to the president, he shares the joyous season of the milestone with all those that have enjoyed the adventures of the scheme and have been sharing memories and pictures with nostalgia.
“He rushed home and reported the incident in the community, the community members decided to go to the bush Friday morning to recover the corpse, believing that the terrorists might have left by then, unfortunately, they ambushed those who went to fetch the body of the slained civilian and killed some of them.
Nigerians are so collectively frustrated that it is almost impossible to convince them that they can find justice.
Mr Obi and Atiku Abubakar of the PDP are challenging the outcome of the 25 February presidential election won by Bola Tinubu of the ruling APC.
However, the law has taken its course and we just have to now move forward as a family,” Ms Ekweremadu told BBC.
The race for senate president has generated controversy among senators elected for the 10th assembly on the platform of the ruling APC.
Reacting to the judgement, Mr Olufemi similarly expressed bewilderment that the magistrate ignored vital issues that were raised before the court.
“I have requested the chairman of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs to invite the honourable minister of Foreign Affairs and officials from the Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NIDCOM) and the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) to appear before the House to give an account of the status of evacuation efforts,” he said.
Türkiye attaches great importance to improving its relations with Nigeria, as the strongest nation in the African continent,” Mr Erdogan.
Mr Adebayo said one of the passengers in a commercial tricycle was caught with children’s diapers and different denominations of cash.
The APC lost the state in both the presidential and gubernatorial elections.
“Can we also realise that Nigeria is full of very bright young people in tech?
In his reaction, Mr Sani in a twitter post on Friday said the criticisms have made Messrs Soyinka and Chimamanda to be in the ring of Nigeria’s political battle.
Mr Ekweremadu and his wife were last year arrested in the United Kingdom for allegedly trafficking a young Nigerian man into the country with the purpose of harvesting his kidney.
Parents said they sold their properties plus donations they received from other Nigerians to raise the ransoms paid to Mr Gide and his gang.
Chris Ngige would later clinch the governorship ticket of the party ahead of the 19 April 2003 governorship election in the state.
HEDA further stated that it would closely monitor the situation and look forward to hearing or receiving possible updates on the steps taken by the commission to curb this corrupt practice, which is capable of undermining the ability of the government to perform its basic statutory duties in serving the citizens.
He recalled how Bayero University, Kano expelled almost 200 students for presenting fake A-level results.
“In total the grand jury found there were 34 documents with this critical false statements.
Mr Ikechukwu Ani, the Head of Press and Public Relations of PSC, announced this in a statement issued on Tuesday in Abuja.
“There has also been commentary I believe from Amnesty International where there has been reflection on what many people believe is an unfair treatment and our view is that we will like this matter of unfair treatment to be properly discussed but in the meantime, the governing party has decided once again that there should be a pull out,” he added.
NAN also reports that more Nigerians, onboard Azman and Tarco Airlines, are expected back into the country today.
While urging the governor to focus on good governance, the petitioner also prayed for the state governor for a successful and prosperous tenure.
“The new and old currency notes have been circulating side by side.
Miffed by the EFCC’s enquiries about its financial affairs, the government filed the suit to challenge the commission’s power to probe its finances.
Raising concerns about China’s trade relationship with Africa and visa tenure, the Nigerian government official accused China of producing substandard products for Africa and issuing short visa tenures to Nigerians, factors stakeholders believe need to be urgently addressed to avoid hindering both countries’ trade relationships.
And even if there are terms and terminologies that appear in a way like LGBT and others, you need to explain to them.
Mr Otti said members of the Abia State chapter of the Nigeria Medical Association (NMA) paid him a courtesy visit on Friday and informed him of the “widespread looting of government property at the Aba General Hospital” in the state.
Mr Adejobi said that Mr Egbetokun hails from Yewa South Local Government Area of Ogun, and holds a BSc.
How I acquired my foreign properties – Keyamo
The report said the government should provide incentives for export-oriented firms, especially in the non-oil sectors.
Mr Obi, who came third in the election, is similarly challenging Mr Tinubu’s victory in court, on among other grounds, that the president-elect failed to secure up to 25 per cent votes in Abuja.
“This is a moment when we reflect on the gifts of salvation and redemption from sin and death made possible through the sacrificial death of Jesus Christ on the Cross.
I want to ask questions, and he must answer me, or we go to court.
“This will show Nigerians that I am not just in the contest because I am desperate, I am in the contest because I understand the diversity and the need for inclusivity, the need for unity of the nation across gender, across religion as my leader has said,” she said.
There’s no individual that can drag it out with government.
He was joined by other Nigerian artistes, including Mayokun, Asake, Iyanya and Spyro, to mention a few.
Mr Melaye, a former senator, said it was contradictory for Mr Wike who funded his 2019 governorship campaign to now say in 2023 that he is not fit to be the governor of Kogi State.
However, she described a specific occasion when RK was in the same bed as her in a hotel when he touched her breasts.
Yusuf Asamah Kadiri, SAN – CHAIRMAN
The Taiwan and Malaysia noodles have nothing to do with our local producers.”
“Yes, the list that you saw is genuine and it’s from our village.
Justice Abang ordered that the terms of imprisonment shall run concurrently beginning from 25 October 2019, the date he was arraigned.
But other African countries have similar ties.
The Court of Appeal in Abuja ordered Mr Kanu’s release from the custody of the State Security Service (SSS), after dismissing the charges against Mr Kanu in October last year.
Fishers, Mr Anthony said, do not accept transfer.
“While in the senate, you should always be reminded that you are indebted to your constituencies and should work towards attracting development projects to your people.”
The bank initially set 31 January as the deadline for the use of old naira notes across Nigeria, but the deadline was later shifted to 10 February.
Mr Obi and LP said INEC violated its own regulations when it announced the result despite the fact that at the time of the announcement, the totality of the polling unit results had yet to be fully scanned, uploaded and transmitted electronically as required by the Electoral Act.
But in another suit filed by Emmanuel Ekpenyong, an Abuja-based human rights and constitutional lawyer, he had urged the Federal High Court in Abuja to strike down some provisions of the CAMA law.
Ohanaeze reacts to claims that it’s planning to participate in Tinubu inauguration
Tinubu’s team replies Chimamanda, says letter to US President based on “falsehood”
It is sad that your hard earned reputation is undergoing very severe stress and pressure from those who want justice on their own terms.
The Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) has filed a lawsuit against the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) over “the failure to investigate allegations of electoral violence and other electoral offences including bribery against some state governors and their deputies during the 2023 elections.”
The National Hajj Commission of Nigeria (NAHCON), has announced the total Hajj fare for the year 2023.
Mr Doguwa has joined 10 other candidates that have declared interest in the race.
Others included Mustapha Habib Ahmed, Director-General National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), Representative of Refugees Commissioner, Iman Ibrahim, and other stakeholders.
(Be) loyal to the country because it is when you have a country that you can even exist as a lawmaker."
The APC counsel, Lateef Fagbemi, also a SAN, said there should not be a mistake of the subpoena at this stage, saying it is whatever document is produced that should be brought to the table.
The meeting was presided over by President Muhammmadu Buhari.
Mr Edu called on the Lagos State Government to expedite investigation on the cause of the building collapse.
The Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Faruk Yahaya, made the disclosure on Saturday in Zaria, Kaduna State at the passing-out parade of the 84 regular recruits intake.
This means they will work together to continue to perpetrate their criminal activities in those areas.
When he took it to an Apple dealer, he was asked to pay N320,000 (about $700) to fix the damage.
Everytime we focus on Europe, America and all that, it is time to focus on Africa and Africans in the Diaspora,” she said.
Despite the lingering unsubstantiated claims that Mr Obi was deported from the UK after allegedly breaching British government laws, it is still unclear if he still possesses a valid UK visa at the moment.
During the election of the senate president and the deputy senate president of the eight Senate, although the APC was in the majority, the PDP played a significant role in the choice of the presiding officers.
In pleading guilty, Woodberry confessed to defrauding a company in New York, identified as “Victim Company B” of almost $188,000 through online scams involving business email comprise schemes.
*Stephen Adah, presiding justice, Asaba Division (65)
Mr Chikwado-Eze argued that Mr Okoye could not arraign Nnamdi on the fresh charge, having not been served with it earlier.
The NARD President said many state governors “are yet to implement the appropriate CONMESS structure, domesticate the Medical Residency Training Act (MRTA) or improve on the hazard allowance paid to NARD members.”
Another building under construction “partially” collapsed in the Apapa area of Lagos on Sunday.
Mr Agaba is standing trial alongside Patrick Akpobolokemi, a former Director-General of NIMASA and Warredi Enisuoh.
To generate a fake newspaper clipping with Fodey, users only need to fill a space with the newspaper name, date, and headline and write any story they want to share.
Their performance resulted in the president-elect having the least ‘winning’ popular vote, 36.6% in the Fourth Republic (from 1999 to date).
His wife of 18 years, Queen Consort Camilla was also anointed and crowned queen after being presented with the royal sceptre and the rod of equity and mercy.
He had said he would not support Mr Tinubu.
Mr Ogundare, who said several other criminal suspects were also arrested, did not give the full name of the suspect.
The resolution was a sequel to a motion of urgent public importance moved by Ibrahim Kawu (APC, Kano) on Thursday during plenary.
He said the family would announce funeral arrangements for the deceased in due course.
Then you can edit almost anything like comments, likes, events, etc.
“We are asking for the indulgence of the Senate to give us one week because we have not interviewed any person at this point in time,” he said.
‘‘With a vast portfolio and strategic investments that span across multiple sectors, MOFI has the potential to shape industries, spur innovation, and support economic growth.
According to him, the fencing of the Oguta port is completed while some basic facilities required for a port to operate are being put in place depending on the availability of resources.
The spokesperson for the Force Headquarters, Muyiwa Adejobi, disclosed this in a Twitter post, Monday night.
The minister said that out of 7 unicorns in the continent, Nigeria now accounts for 4 unicorns worth over $ 1 billion each.
In 2016, the Federal Government of Nigeria filed a Mareva injunction at a Federal High Court in Lagos seeking to confiscate a list of properties belonging to Messrs Aluko and Omokore valued at $1.8 billion.
“We are not against anybody.
At the parallel market, rates collated across the country revealed that the domestic currency closed at N740.645 to a dollar on Tuesday as against N730.463 per $1 it closed on Monday.
Although, he thanked Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State and the police authorities for their “interventions,” Mr Maikyau reiterated “our call on the Federal Government to live up to its constitutional responsibility of protecting the lives and properties of all Nigerians in all its ramification.”
“We would be stranded and frustrated because all our life and our family depend on this education.
Mr Otedola is the majority owner of Ajaokuta-based Geregu Power, formerly a government-owned facility, with an installed capacity of 435MW.
Mr Doguwa, is now a member-elect for the fifth term.
‘‘I convey my hearty congratulations to the new homeowners in this estate.
“Residents should report suspected cases of TB within their communities.
We know that AGILE will also help in widening the girl-child’s access to education,’’ he said.
“Elections should be seen as the path to an end, which is the progress of the people in a peaceful environment, rather than unending bickering.
Mr Sirika on Thursday tweeted saying “I received one out of nine Primary Radar equipment to be procured.
“The petition is liable to be struck out, as its complaint of noncompliance, when no pleading or incidence of noncompliance has been made by the petitioners in respect of any of the …polling units forming the constituency of the election.”
However, I have a suggestion for what we could use for fascism, we could use fascism for INEC because as is it right now, many Nigerians feel deeply cheated by INEC and deeply disenfranchised by INEC and there is authoritarianism which is the basis of fascism at the centre of manipulating election because what you do is gagging people and forcefully taken aware their voice that is fascism.
“I must say that in very many ways, the National Economic Council in the past few years or 10 to 15 years has demonstrated that our country has quality leadership.
It is, however, important to note that the surge in the number of customers falling victim to social media scammers is largely due to poor customer service delivery across Nigerian banks.
Upon resumed trial on the matter on Tuesday, Mr Kaswe, who appeared for the AGF, informed the court that he had the authority of Mr Malami to take over the case.
Direct primary election is the mode of election where registered members of a party vote for who they want to be the candidate of their party.
• Godiya Akwashiki Nasarawa North
The President of IPI Nigeria, Musikilu Mojeed, said the committees were constituted to enhance the work of the organisation, bring in more inclusiveness and more buy-in to the work IPI Nigeria does.
Inibehe Effiong, another legal practitioner, told PREMIUM TIMES that the country’s law insists that for a case of robbery to be established, two elements of the offence of robbery – use of force to obtain property and intention of permanent deprivation of the said property – must be proved.
20 (Uniform Retirement Age for Judicial Officers), 2023” at plenary on Tuesday.
Special Assistant to the Executive Chairman, FIRS (Media & Communication)
These are traits that you need to hit the ground running immediately.
Responding, the APC faulted the claim by the AA that its presidential candidate was excluded from the election, arguing that its known candidate, Mr Al-Mustapha, participated in the election.
Likewise, APC spokesperson, Felix Morka, said he cannot comment on a statement he has not seen.
Contrary to the court’s findings, Mr Gambari argued that a former employee of Hillcrest Agro-Allied Industries Limited, “testified before the court that he was not only a witness to how smoking of Indian hemp pervaded the site but equally, it was the persistent smoking of the Indian hemp that informed his decision to sever his employment with the company.”
Mr Cruz noted that winding down the production of Sunlight, Omo and Lux will be gradual and not dramatic.
Nigeria was to supply the gas for free over 20 years and the two parties would split the processed resources.
He said the miliary has not been well-equipped to battle the terrorists.
The Managing Editor of PREMIUM TIMES, Idris Akinbajo, will deliver the keynote speech at a climate change workshop in The Gambia.
If the APC’s votes in the election, according to Chimamanda’s narrative, were rigged and fictitious, what does she say about the votes recorded by the other parties particularly her favourite candidate, Peter Obi?
Amnesty International said the West’s ‘robust response to Russia’s aggression against Ukraine’ – including the ICC indictment of Putin – ‘contrasts sharply with a deplorable lack of meaningful action on grave violations by some of their allies including Israel, Saudi Arabia and Egypt.’ It also contrasted the ICC action against Russia to ‘pitiful existing responses on conflicts such as Ethiopia and Myanmar.’
According to the report, the South-East Jollof Index indicates that there were fluctuations in prices from September 2022 to March 2023.
He, however, noted that the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing is working with the Lagos State Government, all traffic management and security agencies to minimize the discomfort of motorists.
He did not respond to a request for comment.
She said the hardship caused by the activities of vandals usually impacted negatively on all residents of the state, hence the need for vigilance to stop miscreants from damaging public infrastructure.
PRESIDENT-ELECT’S SOLIDARITY MESSAGE TO NIGERIAN WORKERS ON INTERNATIONAL WORKERS’ DAY
Both chambers of the National Assembly will be inaugurated in June during which the presiding officers will be elected.
According to Mr Tinubu, there have been back-channel communications between him and the new monarch through mutual friends.
Amidst outrage on social media, the police in Rivers and at the Force Headquarters, Abuja, had condemned the officers’ action before they– three of them – were later arrested and taken to Abuja to face administrative trial.
Tribunal receives six petitions challenging Oyo governorship, assembly election results
“We deliberated completely about it, and as we speak, a committee that was set up to complete that conversation is in progress,” he said.
Mr Tsammani said the pre-hearing session would last 14 days from the day of its commencement.
The Identification of poor and vulnerable Nigerians starts with Geographic Mapping of the poorest Local Governments, Wards, and Communities, and followed by Community Based Targeting approach where each community is brought together to define poverty in its local context and identify households that fit the profile of poor in the community.
According to Amnesty International in a statement Friday, there have been at least five reported cases of abductions in northern Nigeria, including from schools, between December 2020 and March 2021, while the threat of further attacks has led to the closure of over 600 schools in the region.
Despite the high level of intra-regional mobility within the countries, ECOWAS noted that about 196 million people (roughly 53 per cent of the population) do not have proof of identification.
“For Christ’s sake, Dino does not have what it takes to be a governor at all.
The Nigerian Senate has congratulated its former deputy president, Ike Ekweremadu, who is in jail in the United Kingdom, on his 61st birthday.
The CP urged officers of the police force to sustain the onslaught against banditry and other forms of criminalities in the state.
He stated that at a meeting, the committee deliberated on saving the soul of the main opposition party in the state.
Mr Gwadabe, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) died in Kano at the age of 86 after battling an undisclosed ailment.
This is the time for inclusion and harmony in the State at the end of litigation.”
SOS Village assists 110 households affected by flood in Lagos
He, also informed the court that it is still the case of the prosecution adding that the prosecution is still leading evidence as PW 1 was still testifying.
The petition is based on four major grounds amongst which are that Mr Tinubu’s election is invalid by reason of non-compliance with the provisions of the Electoral Act, 2022.
Some members of the House of Representatives have denied the allegation by Progressives Governors Forum (PGF) that two candidates seeking to become Senate President and Speaker are offering to bribe their fellow lawmakers with as much as $1 million each to get elected.
The trio announced their withdrawal on Wednesday during a meeting of the Joint Task Group at Transcorp Hilton in Abuja.
The clash, which reportedly began on Monday, concentrated within communities along Nwaniba Road, a major road that leads to a five-star hotel, Ibom Hotel & Golf Resort, in Uyo, and the permanent campus of the University of Uyo.
Banish evil and insecurity from our land.
On the speakership front, there are speculations that Tajudeen Abass (Kaduna) and Sada Soli (Katsina) are favoured by several lawmakers.
In the audio clip, Mr Obi was heard asking Mr Oyedepo to help spread his campaign message to Christians in the South-west and parts of North-central.
Imo Senator-elect, Osita Izunaso, visits Buhari, says he’s most qualified to be Senate president
The latest incident is one of the killings recorded in the oil-rich state lately.
The magistrate, Oby Amadi discharged and acquitted Mr Ohadoma of the robbery charge after a letter presented to the court from the Director of Public Prosecution stated that no prima facie case of robbery was established against him from the available evidence.
second and third sessions – The World in Africa: growing competition – state and non-state actors – invited conversation from a range of actors present in Africa to expose their interest in the continent.
After the judge struck out the amended charge, the prosecution called its first witness, Godwin Odu.
Earlier, the prosecution led by S. A Adebese and Morufu Animashaun had prayed the court to remand the defendant for 21 days pending legal advice from the Directorate of Public Prosecutions.
Mr Waive declared his interest in a “notice of intent” sent to members-elect of the 10th House.
“I was to contest with the current speaker.
Barely 72 hours after PREMIUM TIMES reported the anxiety in Oyo kingdom over the delay in the selection of a new Alaafin, the state governor, Seyi Makinde, has given reason for the delay.
While identity-based voting has been a usual feature on the Nigerian political scene, the emergence of third-force candidates at the frontlines of the 2023 election increased its relevance.
Peter Obi came third in the 25 February election but he, and Atiku Abubakar of the PDP, who came second, are challenging the victory of Bola Tinubu of the ruling APC.
The Christian body added that it is considering sanctions against FrieslandCampina WAMCO Nigeria PLC, including a boycott of their products by their members and all well-meaning Nigerians who share its concerns.
24 years later, I can still remember how jovial he was and how happy he made us feel.
The electoral body declared the election held on 25 February inconclusive following the malfunctioning of the Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) machines and cases of over-voting in the affected two polling units.
She opted to make several videos to publicly endorse and campaign for her “messianic” candidate of the Labour Party.
Describing both types of research as pressing social problems, Robert Wood, dean of the Faculty of Arts said “Kisha and Temitope are exemplars in the arts community, and I’m so pleased they are being recognized and honoured in this way.”
“I look forward to further engagements with you and the opportunity of a meeting in the nearest future as both of us had earlier indicated in discussions with mutual friends and associates,” Mr Tinubu said while congratulating the new monarch.
He had pleaded not guilty to all the counts.
It’s a structure that is made of wood, has been there for 40 years.
“So, it’s not a function of money.
Mr Odu informed the court that it was after the Awka convention that Mr Njoku, began parading himself as the new national chairman of APGA.
Festus Keyamo [PHOTO CREDIT: Festus Keyamo on Facebook]“That is not how we operate.
The consequence is that the nation is plagued by fake CVs compiled by all kinds of amateur commentators, still wet behind the ears, who have too few truths to build on before they are corralled into positions of No-Retreat.
“Nigerians believed and expected President Buhari to leave a legacy of a free, fair and credible election based on his numerous undertakings and promises but he is leaving an ignoble, dishonourable and disgraceful legacy of enabling and superintending over the worst election conducted in the history of democracy in Nigeria.
By and large, ‘A Simple Lie’ is worth seeing
The APC candidate, Akanimo Udofia came third.
In what is an indication of the intense politicking to come in the next few weeks, lawmakers elected on the platform of minority parties also said Monday that they would challenge the APC for the position of speaker.
Together, we can build back better and create a more inclusive and sustainable future for all.”
PT: Away from politics, let’s talk about programs and plans.
Mr Awoyemi who started his career in Librarianship at the Oyo State Library Board, Ibadan in 2004, has worked at Redeemer’s University, Ede, Osun State, before joining the Adeyemi College of Education, Ondo in 2009.
But the court instead granted Mr Kuti a “suspended bail”.
We need to show empathy and support for our women.
Cost of sales contracted by 6 per cent, but selling and distribution costs accelerated by one-fifth to almost N7 billion.
authority and integrity of the court, which is dominus litis over the proceedings.
“Such investments also lead to creating employment opportunities for artisans and other skilled members of the society.”
“He sues for calm from all sides involved,” the statement added.
It allows users to upload profile pictures, write statuses, select likes, add comments and many more cool features.
“Based on what was received from the co-chair of the Technical Working Group, over N50 billion have been spent so far.
The country’s military leader, Abdel Fattah al-Burhan, disputed the former’s claim saying the military continues to maintain control over government sites.
We condemn it and we believe that integrity should come to play.”
Mr Akuneme also said the CG’s three-point agenda includes reforming passport issuance, tightening border security and improving the welfare of NIS officers.
“The FCT Administration had promised to give all necessary material support to make the event hitch-free and successful, while the Minister of Labour and Employment wishes all Nigerian workers a blissful Workers Day in May,’’ he said.
Therefore, there is no way the legislature should make a law that seeks to emasculate the rights the Nigerian people have.
“Issues of nomination, sponsorship and exclusion of candidates for an election are issues that precede the conduct of an election and are pre-election matters that cannot be raised of canvased before an election
“Unfortunately, the honourable minister of finance is not here, the attorney-general of the federation is not here, and this is a formal request from the committee that they appear before this committee because they have received a formal invitation to do so and a lot of what we have to investigate regards to the whistleblower policy is saddled within the ministry of finance and the attorney-general of the federation.
“It was a terrible shock.
He was later elevated to a Patriarch/Prelate – the administrative and pastoral leader of the Methodist Church in Nigeria, a position he served for 22 years.
Also, Mr Lukman, during an interview on AIT on Tuesday, alleged that money was given to Mr Omisore for the prosecution of the Osun election but that the national secretary has yet to give an account of the money.
Reading the communique at the end of a meeting in Abuja, Ifeanyi Ubah (YPP-Anambra) also urged the President-elect to ensure the position was zoned to the South-east.
We will bring a lawyer – when a woman is involved, you will even see some people trying to set new rules.
I know he resided abroad when he went into exile."
“Anyone seen enforcing Monday sit-at-home should be treated as a criminal and enemy of our people,” Mr Powerful stated.
The lawyer said that the officer involved in the shooting was arrested and taken to the State Criminal Investigation Department (SCID), Yaba but was later “released before the legal advice from the Lagos State Directorate of Public Prosecution came out and he was thereafter transferred to the Zamfara police command.”
However, the Supreme Court ordered his retrial based on technicalities.
Mr Tinubu won the presidential election in Rivers State, allegedly aided by Mr Wike.
The 80-year-old politician was earlier this month presented to Governor Hope Uzodinma of Imo State by a delegation of the Imo Elders Council as the consensus candidate to replace the immediate past president-general of the Igbo group, George Obiozor, whose death was announced in December.
PREMIUM TIMES reported that the evacuation commenced last Wednesday and encountered logistics and diplomatic challenges.
The Presidential Election Petition Court in Abuja on Tuesday ordered the All Progressives Congress (APC) and its presidential candidate, Bola Tinubu, to file their responses to all pending applications in the case instituted by the Allied Peoples Movement (APM).
“I assure you of my administration’s commitment to provide socio-economic infrastructure to improve the wellbeing of our people,” he said.
During the first panel session of the event moderated by a project officer at Sahel Consulting, Hammed Jimoh, on Wednesday, the panellists discussed the theme “Achieving feed and food security in Nigeria through the commercialisation of alternative feed utilisation”.
He (Agbazue) said nobody (authorised him to charge the lady to court),’” Mr Victor stated.
He said the petitioners, in another case before the Supreme Court, are also asking for same prayers as in the instant petition.
“Specifically, Your Eminence, the Nigerian Muslim Ummah would therefore appreciate that you leverage your committed leadership to partner with the NSCIA to guide, admonish and discourage our Pastors and Imams, from desecrating their pulpits with political partisanship and hate speech,” the letter reads.
He said he would “lead evidence to show that the 1st petitioner could not even campaign or canvass for votes in some of the states controlled by the 2nd petitioner, including Rivers and Oyo states where the 2nd respondent (Tinubu) defeated the 1st petitioner (Atiku) by a wide margin”.
Messrs Wike and Makinde are members of the G5 governors, which include Samuel Ortom of Benue, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu and Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia States, all members of the PDP.
INEC subsequently released a statement voiding the announcement by its REC of the state stating that it was a usurpation of the power of the returning officer.
Last year, the Medical and Dental Consultants Association of Nigeria (MDCAN) said more than 100 of its members left the country within 24 months.
The first-ever malaria vaccine, RTS,S or mosquirix, from British drugmaker GSK, was approved by the WHO in 2021 after decades of work.
Mr Wike in the broadcast described Mr Tinubu’s visit to the state as both historic and an honour to the state.
The presidential election in February produced Bola Tinubu of the All Progressive Congress as Nigeria’s next leader.
“That the introduction of technology especially, the Bimodal Voter Accreditation System(BVAS), made it pretty difficult for anybody to do the usual things before like over-voting, stuffing of ballot boxes and the likes because once it takes your biometrics; you cannot vote twice,” he said.
She urged all the men in the race to step down for her in the interest of the inclusion of women, youth and the South-east geopolitical zone.
He told Justice Mohammed Madugu shortly after the case was about to be adjourned.
Aisha Buhari thanks Nigerian women, diplomatic corps for ‘successful tenure’
“He struck at the heart of the subsisting survival principles, minimal needs and entitlements of the ordinary people in the street.
While Davido was performing his hit 2017 single ‘Fia’ a fan of the singer rushed on stage to meet the artist.
“We reached out to LUTH and other hospitals in Lagos but we couldn’t find the drug,” he said, adding that “they simply confided in us that if you can get the medicine, then get it.”
I never expected the journey to a New Nigeria to be an easy one.
Mr Suraju emphasized the need for measures to be taken to prevent its further spread as we progress in the consolidation of the country’s democratization.
Mr Hassan advised motorists to desist from wrongful overtaking and speeding on highways.
Mr Heappey said that the UK and Nigerian armed forces enjoyed a long and strong relationship, stressing that the conversation was focused on the security challenges in the region.
The judge, Binta Nyako, gave the warning at Wednesday’s proceedings before adjourning the hearing until 22 May.
The committee called for “urgent intervention” to protect medical staff and patients.
“Nigeria’s economy faced challenges in gaining momentum in the first quarter of 2023, with business activity and consumer spending remaining subdued, in addition to high input-cost inflation and lower employment levels compared with the previous year,” the oil cartel said in the report.
Defence 7 denied Mr Massaquoi was involved in what he called a special operation, which he said was carried out on Taylor’s instructions.
“Even work is steadily going on in the others and has reached an appreciable level.
The governor congratulated the new president-general for accepting to serve Igbos and the nation in the capacity.
Senators elected on the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC) on Thursday paid a courtesy visit to the president-elect, Bola Tinubu.
Meanwhile, supplementary elections for the House of Representatives will be held for 31 constituencies in 15 states.
The incident occurred around 3:00 p.m. and no fatality was recorded.
Police arrest suspected IPOB members who allegedly killed five officers, couple in Imo
“On defamation, the 1st and 2nd convicts are sentenced to a fine of N60,000 only each or three months imprisonment in default of payment,” Mr Muhammad said.
The NEC also critically evaluated the 2023 general elections and noted INEC’s failure to transmit election results in real-time from polling units, which it said gave room for massive manipulation of results.
The petitioners further stated, in court documents, that before the deceased’s death, his 30 percent shares in Solel Boneh and his interest in the company devolved on them as a matter of share transmission under the company law.
“Law enforcement agencies should recognize the Press as a critical partner in the democratic process and desist from any form of confrontation.
The court earlier held its inaugural sitting during which it assured all litigants that it would do justice to all parties to the case pending before it.
Doubtful if he had the jurisdiction to hear the suit, Mr Ekwo ordered Mr Sheriff to address him on the point of law on Tuesday.
He and the Labour Party are, however, challenging the result of the election in court.
Many of those affected are either directly connected to the G-5 governors or, like the dissident governors, openly supported the presidential candidates of other parties.
The whines of “silence” are relative to the reading scope and world knowledge of idle complainants as well as their grasp of the chain of continuity.
Taraba State Police spokesperson, Abdullahi Usman, didn’t respond to calls and SMS sent to him by a PREMIUM TIMES reporter on the killings.
Besides, APC sought a declaration that Mr Tambuwal was unfit to hold public office for violating the provisions of the 1999 Constitution (as Amended).
“Is SARS back on Lagos roads?
President Buhari, therefore, charged the staff and management team of the investment company to continue to work closely with other government agencies, the private sector, Development Finance Institutions (DFIs), and other stakeholders to ensure that they achieve shared goals and objectives.
The Attorney-General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, on Tuesday, terminated the N1.84 billion corruption charges filed against Nicholas Ashinze, a former military assistant to then National Security Adviser (NSA), Sambo Dasuki, and eight others.
Mr Olupona is a renowned Professor of African Religious Traditions, with a joint appointment as Professor of African and African-American Studies in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, and Professor of Religion at Harvard Divinity School, Harvard University, Cambridge.
Mr Adebanjo advocates a power shift to the South-east and supported Peter Obi of the Labour Party for the election.
But Mr Asadu declined the request, explaining that he was under instruction from his parents not to step out of the house after 6 p.m., according to Mrs Victoria, who was at her local restaurant shop, alongside Ms Asadu, at the time.
Olasoji Adagunodo Oluwatukesi, National Vice Chairman (South-West) of the Peoples Democratic Party.
It said despite the high oil prices in the aftermath of the COVID-19 pandemic, Nigeria’s oil production has been very low.
“Arising from the above, all students of the university are ordered to vacate the campus premises immediately and should not be seen within the campus premises for the next two weeks.”
“Gobeze should be released without delay, and authorities in Ethiopia and Djibouti must shed light on the murky circumstances surrounding his arrest and rendition.”
Also, a check on the LP’s website by this paper also revealed that the party has deleted the statement issued by Mr Onifade about Mr Obi’s London ordeal which it published earlier.
“The budget deficits would have been much smaller, or Nigeria would have operated on a balanced budget.
Mr Maina, not satisfied with the judgement, approached the appellate court challenging it.
‘I’m a happy man,’ says Tinubu as he inaugurates projects in Rivers
But after extensive research into the oil and gas sector in Nigeria’s oil-producing Niger Delta region, the SDN urged the Nigerian government to tread with caution in its expansion plans, “to avoid redirecting resources away from more sustainable infrastructure, delaying the clean energy transition, and deepening dependence on fossil fuels, which could result in stranded assets and debt that will be difficult to repay as demand and prices fluctuate.”
Oil spills: Bayelsa cleanup to cost $12 billion – Report
“Adebanjo is using political inner mind to cause crisis.
NiMet predicts three days of sunshine, cloudiness
He said the right to vote is a fundamental right that is not subject to voting.
“Such an order of acquittal will show that the Nigerian justice system is one that gives justice to all,” he said.
“I am confident that your visit will strengthen the dialogue between our countries and contribute to further consolidation of joint efforts of the international community aimed at solving the urgent challenges of today, in particular the crisis situation caused by Russia regarding the guarantee of world food security,” Mr Zelensky said.
The programme with the theme “Good Governance at the Sub-national Level: Issues, Perspectives, Expectations and Outcomes” was organised by the PDP-GF.
We killed one bandit dressed in military camouflage, while others escaped with varying degrees of bullet wounds; One operational motorcycle was also recovered.
Before his death, the slain monarch was the chairperson of Ezza North Traditional Rulers Council in Ebonyi State.
“But I know for sure we are hospitable, we are friendly and the Benue State Assembly is also a knowledgeable Assembly.
5, Amadiya Street, Olomore area of Abeokuta, was arraigned on Friday.
“The offences being against the defendants are not state offences promulgated by the state legislation but a federal offence, having being promulgated by the national assembly, though relates to finances of Ondo state,” the judge had ruled.
The founders of the app made it clear that the “software is intended for fun, humour and parody – be careful what you make and how it may be shared.
He said forensic accounting would assist the courts in reaching conclusions on corruption cases without delay.
They also have the capacity to punish for disobedience of their orders and judgements in committal proceedings.
Mr Ohadoma’s four sisters, who tried to intervene when his alleged debtor, Mr Ahamefula, called in the police to arrest him, were also arrested, hurriedly arraigned and sent to prison under controversial circumstances.
Shehu Garba’s infantile statement on the security situation in Benue State has once again confirmed our position that the killings; mass murder in Benue by the Fulani militia has the full endorsement of the Buhari government.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the theme for the 2023 World Earth Day is “Invest in Our Planet”.
The Kano State High Court, in 2021, sentenced a man, Paul Owne to 91 years in prison after convicting him of masterminding the kidnap of children in Kano for sale in Onitsha, Anambra State.
A prosecution witness told the Federal High Court in Abuja how a scam suspect allegedly defrauded his victims in 13 countries of $382,000 worth of bitcoins.
Mr Ifoh stated that he was appointed national publicity secretary of the party at a meeting in Asaba because of the vacancy created by the expulsion of the former national publicity secretary.
Altogether 18 candidates contested the presidential election.
They were hoping to make withdrawals for the first time since 17 February, after the only commercial banks in the area had been vandalised during a protest over the nationwide naira scarcity.
Mr Ogbuku said he has been working to correct the “dysfunctional situation” he inherited from his predecessor.
The commandant said that the abusive act was on for three years from 2020 to 2023, since when the victim was 16 years old.
Tiwa, known for her electrifying performances and soulful music, is expected to deliver a performance that will captivate the audience and leave a lasting impression on the historic occasion.
The governor commended the leadership style of labour leaders in the state which had led to harmonious working relations between Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and the state government for the benefit of all citizens.
If we don’t give this credence and credit to him, I will be an ingrate.
“The new arrivals just now are 140 adults, comprising three infants and 30 children, making a total evacuation to 2,518″.
On the concession of airports, the ministry said the unions are aware of global practices and that for the aviation industry in Nigeria to be the hub in Africa, the concession is the way to improve infrastructure and make airports economically viable.
The Cook-a-thon is an attempt by the actress and TV producer who has shown her culinary skills on various Television Cook shows and represented Nigeria at the Jollof Faceoff Competition in 2021, emerging as the winner.
Six months after the Court of Appeal ordered freeing Mr Kanu, the apex court for the first time heard the government’s appeal.
The Parliamentary Staff Association of Nigeria (PASAN) has given Governor Dapo Abiodun until the end of May to address issues raised by its members in the Ogun State House of Assembly over their welfare.
“You don’t just enforce these things (leadership positions) on independent people.
The transition committee of the incoming All Progressives Congress (APC) in Benue State has accused the outgoing administration of Governor Samuel Ortom of delay in submitting handover reports to it.
Ms Adichie believes Mr Tinubu could not have won the election if “results had been uploaded in real-time to the INEC portal.
Mr Adeleke said that his administration was focusing on workers’ welfare because that was the right thing to do.
Sources from the community told this newspaper that the police officer was later found dead in a bush in the council area.
I am running to be Speaker of the House of Representatives, worst case, deputy speaker, so that women will still have a voice on the presiding table, so, that opportunity gives us the platform or the leverage to sit on the decision-making table as leadership of the House of Representatives.
President Buhari only assented to 16, 5 of which are mainly clerical amendments of names of certain Local Governments.
At least 12 of these journalists are confirmed to have been killed in connection with their work.
The protest by the PDP has continued into a second day.
While calling on the new members to “to hit the ground running”, Mrs Atkinson urged them to learn from their predecessors.
Mr Osifeso said that the team, led by one Insp Stanley Ikhine, flagged down an ash-coloured Lexus 350 SUV, with a faintly inscribed worn-off number plate, thus further arousing suspicion from the officers on watch.
“The whole idea is conceived because UTME candidates take computer-based tests and blind people cannot.
INEC had declared the 25 February election in Yobe South inconclusive following the cancellation of the Polling Unit 003 results in Manawaci in Fika LGA leading to Saturday’s rerun.
He explained that fiscal policy measures must seek to ensure a good balance between objectives of revenue generation, boosting domestic production, enhancing the welfare of citizens, promoting economic growth, deepening economic inclusion, facilitating job creation and recognizing societal ethos, beliefs and values.
He also agreed that the commission, not being Nigerian police, had no power to conduct criminal investigation that would lead to criminal trial and imposition of sanctions.
He added that the commissioner of police in the state, Afolabi Babatola, has ordered the officer in charge of the Family Support Unit of the State Criminal Investigation Department (CID) to take over the investigation and ensure it is prosecuted diligently.
The future of our country is in their (the judiciary) hands, he said, and the judges have only their consciences and God to answer to when you listen to the claims and counterclaims of Nigerian lawyers to decide the future of Nigeria.
The Nigerian government has accused IPOB of being responsible for the deadly attacks in the region.
11:38am: Obed Agu announces legal representation for APP.
Conferred with the Honorary Degree of Doctor of Letters (D.
He also called on bar associations and law societies to fully support the project “when the spotlight is turned towards their jurisdictions.”
It said this will ensure the consolidation of the strength of the party in the region.
He had no realistic electoral path to victory in the presidential election.
Apart from Messrs Akpabio and Barau, other aspirants for the senate presidency include Osita Izunaso (Imo West), Orji Uzor Kalu (Abia North) Patrick Ndubueze (Imo North), Abdulaziz Yari (Zamfara) and Sani Musa (Niger).
“Women are no longer taking the backseat in Ekiti.
Candidates for the speakership election have been making overtures outside their parties.
Ruling, Mr Abang held that the matter was a very simple issue that was not difficult to resolve by the court
“What we are doing is an extra caution to ensure that it is not smuggled in and if so, our post-marketing surveillance would detect it,” she said.
“Meanwhile, Governor El-Rufai has expressed his delight over the development and has praised the students for demonstrating sheer courage and resilience in making their escape from captivity.
Tunji Akinosi said contrary to the claims in the video, it was the hawker who brushed his car.
Mr Kulloma, according to the EFCC’s statement, duped Abdulwahab Aji in August 2020 to deliver N19,950,000 to him under the guise of executing a contract for the supply of water pumps awarded by the Norwegian Refugee Council, a non-governmental organisation.
Light Chijioke Eke (C&C Football Academy)
In the motion dated March 20 and filed on 12 April by Faruk Abdullah, the anti-graft agency argued that the suit constituted an abuse of the court process.
Mr Suraju also urged Nigerians to hold their leaders accountable and demand transparency in governance.
Suggesting that his agency had yet to be served a copy of the judgement to be certain about its next line of action, Mr Ilelah said “global best practice and the ethics of the legal profession,” prevented parties to a suit from commenting freely “on a judgement it has not seen and read”.
Thereafter, Hauwa Maltha got married to one Mallam Muhammad in Gobara and had 2 children for him who later died due to sickness.
Mr Okoye, an assistant superintendent of police, said the shoot-out occurred when police operatives raided a camp belonging to the suspected IPOB members at Uba Agwa/Izombe Tropical Rain Forest in Oguta Local Government Area of the state.
Speaking at the event, the Country Director, Pathfinder International, Amina Dorayi, warned that the COVID-19 pandemic is still very much around and Nigerians must protect themselves against the virus by taking recommended doses of the vaccines.
“That is our only offence,” he added.
We have ensured that Nigerian journalists have had unfettered freedom to practice their art, and on this occasion of World Press Freedom Day, we recommit to that resolution, even as we wind down in office,” the president says.
I got to know him when he came and pay homage to my parents because he heard that my father was the first professor of statistics in Nigeria and my mother had retired as the first female registrar of the University of Nigeria, Nsukka.
The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had declared Mr Tinubu the winner of the election with 8,794,726 votes, to defeat his closest challenger, Atiku, who polled 6,984,520 votes.
Already, he has forfeited approximately 151.85713138 bitcoin (BTC).
In an affidavit of urgency in support of an ex-parte request, the group’s lawyer, Chukwunweike Okafor, urged the court to grant his client permission to apply for an order compelling the Inspector General of Police, Usman Baba, to investigate and prosecute Mr Tinubu if found guilty of perjury regarding his Guinean citizenship.
According to the report, advanced economies are expected to see an especially pronounced growth slowdown, from 2.7 per cent in 2022 to 1.3 per cent in 2023.
He will be competing against Deputy Speaker Idris Wase (APC, Plateau), Yusuf Gagdi (APC, Plateau), Sada Soli (APC, Katsina), Muktar Betara (APC, Borno) Tunji Olawuyi (APC, Kwara) and Abubakar Makki (APC, Jigawa) have all declared interest.
Mr Yakubu was, subsequently, arraigned on 16 March 16 on six counts but the trial court struck out counts one and two.
She urged NEMA to establish rapid response squads in all parts of the country and in the diaspora, to help address unforeseen circumstances.
At the ongoing second edition of the FAAN National Aviation Conference in Abuja, Mr Sirika, who was represented by the aviation ministry’s permanent secretary, Emmanuel Meribole, in his remark affirmed that all aviation roadmap components were at the finishing lines.
Tajudeen Abbas, who was reportedly adopted by the President-elect, Bola Tinubu, for the speakership of the House of Representatives, has defended the plan by the All Progressives Congress (APC) to zone two National Assembly leadership positions to the North-west.
But the government refused to release the IPOB leader insisting that he (Kanu) could be unavailable in subsequent court proceedings if released and that his release would cause insecurity in the South-east.
“One kidnapper was neutralised when he and his gang arrived at a spot to receive N2 million ransom demanded from relatives of the kidnapped victims.
Does it not also exude a serious discomfort that the aspirants to the Speakership were not consulted, approached and effectively engaged before the purported zoning formula?
N8.5bn Fraud: Court orders final forfeiture of properties linked to ex-JTF commander
“Ajay Banga is a co-founder of The Cyber Readiness Institute and was Vice Chair of the Economic Club of New York.
Senate speaks on Buhari’s quest for $800m World Bank loan
Sections 22 and 39 of the 1999 Nigerian Constitution provide for Freedom of Expression and the Press.
Mr Wali, in the traumatic episode that occurred just some months after he completed his tenure as the NBA president in July 2014, was reportedly abducted in Rumuologu, Akpor, Rivers State.
“I, therefore, implore you all to fully support the incoming FOC, to enable him to surpass these achievements during his time here,” he added.
“We have so far deposited about N4 billion to the National Hajj Commission for the seats allocated to the state.
The police spokesperson in the state, Henry Okoye, disclosed this in a statement on Tuesday.
“We are not saying don’t use environmental resources for our survival as humans, but what we are saying is do we sit down together and agree on how to make use of these resources for sustainability?”
The Supreme Court, in a unanimous decision by a five-man panel of justices, admitted that it had in a judgement it delivered in 2021, erroneously written the name of Victor Oye, as chairman of the party.
The Kaduna State High Court has nullified Governor Nasir El-Rufai’s revocation of the Certificate of Occupancy (C of O) of Durbar hotel, belonging to the family of a former Nigerian dictator, late Sani Abacha.
But I do not know what happened when it came to the issue of incorporated trustees.
The vice president is the Chair of PEBEC, an inter-governmental and inter-ministerial council established by the president.
“In his book City of 201 Gods: Ilé-Ifè in Time, Space, and the Imagination, he examines the modern urban mixing of ritual, royalty, gender, class, and power, and how the structure, content, and meaning of religious beliefs and practices permeate daily life.
Easter serves as another opportunity to redirect our attention to our shared values and ideals of fasting, love, prayer, penance and cooperation.
The victim’s father, Godwin Ogwo, a staffer of the Federal Radio Corporation of Nigeria, confirmed the abduction to the newspaper.
The offence is punishable under section 34 (2) of the Child’s Right Law of Anambra State, 2004, the statement said.
He said the group and its leader, Mr Kanu, had vowed never to stop the demand for referendum and eventual independence of Biafra from Nigeria.
ECOWAS Commission to deepen regional integration, create proof of identification
The candidate of the Labour Party, Shuaibu Abubakar, came second with 12, 789 votes.
“I am looking forward to returning to my town, to be as far away as I can from Abuja so that the incoming president will have the time and the space to take decisions without my distracting him,” he said.
The Governor-elect of Katsina State, Mr Radda, gave assurances of his commitment to an open and transparent government as promised during the campaign.
Enugu State Fire Service already extinguished the fire on the bus.
Mr Malami said the Buhari’s administration took steps to ensure payment of the N135 million to the Apo Six in compliance with the recommendations of the National Human Rights Commission, “thereby giving teeth to the Human Rights Commission in terms of compliance with the recommendation.”
In addition, the utilization of gas can help to diversify Nigeria’s energy mix and reduce the country’s dependence on oil,” he added.
“For the tribunal to grant prayer (iii) of the petitioners, the tribunal must have set aside the scores and election of Alhaji Atiku Abubakar,
He also sentenced Mr Maina to three years in jail for count 8, five years for count 9, eight years for count 10, three years for count 11 and three years for count 12.
He said the police have arrested three suspects.
“Ethiopian authorities have brazenly reached across borders to silence and retaliate against journalist Gobeze Sisay.
In a statement on the US State Department website, Secretary of State Antony Binken said “the United States is committed to supporting and advancing democracy in Nigeria and around the world.
The 2023 presidential elections recorded a 27 per cent voter turnout – the lowest since 1999 – with possible migration patterns and voter suppression hazarded as reasons for these low numbers despite high voter registrations.
Presidency defends Buhari after Editorial critical of govt’s actions
Similarly, Mr Tinubu’s lawyer, Wole Olanipekun, said he had no issues accessing documents from the electoral umpire.
Kogi Governorship: Yahaya Bello unveils anointed APC candidate; Onoja, others withdraw
The plaintiff in the ECOWAS Court case, the Expression Now Human Rights Initiative (ENHRI), a non-governmental organisation, had filed the suit alleging that aspects of the broadcasting code of Nigeria encroached on the rights of a free media which should operate freely without “undue interference.”
The source said the monarch was whisked away on one of the motorcycles while other terrorists stayed in the community to stop local vigilante members who might want to follow them.
Their alleged “taking possession” of the funds when they “reasonably ought to know” that they were proceeds of unlawful acts was said to be contrary to section 15(2)(d) of the Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act, 2011 and punishable under section 15(3) of the same Act.
Therefore, the move to zone the National Assembly leadership positions on the behest of interested personalities with perceived closeness to the President-elect manifestly, lays the dangerous foundation of distrust, needless suspicion even as it structures nothing but a combination of booby traps.
We feel highly unprotected,” it added.
10 million households is equivalent to about 50 million Nigerians.”
Riotous supporters of the Labour Party on Wednesday mobbed a factional national chairman of the party, Lamidi Apapa, at the Presidential Election Petition Court in Abuja.
Mr Yadudu noted that there are three models of sustainability including economic viability, environmental protection, and social equity, noting that sustainability can only be achieved through collaboration, control, communication, and commitment.
“May I also say to my people: I share in your pains but I consider it important to stress that you remain peaceful and law-abiding and that as your leaders, we will continue to do our best to ensure that we preserve our heritage until we hand it over to the next generation as our fathers handed it over to us,” Mr Nnukwu said.
We are going to agree to support one of us as the speaker,” Mr Betara said.
"Three million children have been enrolled in the project, we have renovated over 5,000 classrooms..."
Mr Betara will be competing against Deputy Speaker Idris Wase (APC, Plateau), Yusuf Gagdi (APC, Plateau), Muktar Betara (APC, Borno), Sada Soli (APC, Katsina), Tunji Olawuyi (APC, Kwara) and Abubakar Makki (APC, Jigawa) who have all declared interest in the position.
The refusal to entertain corrective criticism, even differing perspectives of the same position has become a badge of honour and certificate of commitment.
“We are in this community to train women who are interested in acquiring new skills and also improve their already existing skills,” she said.
Mr Benjamin listed the categories of candidates affected to include; those who were verified at their centres but could not sit the examination, those who could not be biometrically verified, and those with mismatched data.
“When we came, the fighting was still in Liberia, so we divided the troops.
Amid cash crunch and long queues at bank sites, for instance, individuals with technical or transactional errors would leverage the presence of these banks on social media to interact with them.
“The gesture is an initiative of the IGP’s family welfare insurance scheme aimed at giving succor to the family of police officers who died in active service,” he said.
President Muhammadu Buhari has terminated the appointment of Hajiya Saratu Umar as the Executive Secretary/Chief Executive Officer of the Nigeria Investment Promotion Commission (NIPC), with immediate effect.
The app allows users to send text and voice messages, make voice and video calls, and share images, documents, user locations, and other content seamlessly.
This was brought to fore as a result of the current conflict between the Sudanese armed forces of Abdelfattah al-Burhan and the Rapid Support Forces (RSF), a paramilitary force under the leadership of Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo.
The state lead prosecution counsel, Babjide Boye, in his counter affidavit dated 14 April, urged the court to refuse the bail application of the defendant, but left it at the discretion of the court.
Mr Illiyasu said the majority of the evacuated students have only one semester to complete their studies and if not because of the crisis, they should be finishing in the next three months.
Davido’s cousin Sina Adeleke popularly known as Sina Rambo also took to the stage to perform hit song ‘overseas’.
Also, some persons protested in front of the Defence Headquarters in Abuja, calling for the military’s intervention.
Mr Agbo blamed the crisis on those that do not want LP to challenge the presidential election in court, adding “We are challenging the outcome of INEC’s result, they should allow the court process to finish.
“I retired a permanent secretary in the Ebonyi civil service prematurely because the official could not calculate civil servants’ gratuities,’’ Gov David Umahi said on Tuesday in Abakaliki.
“In all, the three policemen will be posted out of Rivers State to other Commands and Formations to continue their police duties,” Mr Adejobi said.
“Missing” Barrels of Oil: Malami finally appears before Reps panel, says allegation “baseless”
In fact, most of the world’s television broadcasts are devoted to these kinds of events.
Some groups of people have reportedly been parading themselves as officers of Peace Corps of Nigeria without the approval of the president.
The APGA candidate, in a Twitter post on Thursday, said it was “incredibly sad” to observe that the present society had “debased” the value of human life.
Mr Oshodi admitted the defendant to N20 million bail with two sureties in like sum.
”This is for project implementation to encourage cycling, and we will not relent in our efforts,“ he said.
“On hearing my options, the hawker jumped up begging me to allow him to continue with his hawking, saying it was those people that asked him to pretend he had a fractured leg.
All the aspirants that spoke made it clear that they are still in the race for the speakership.
Mr Magashi said that though the money was not much, it could provide them with some level of comfort.
PREMIUM TIMES reported that Ms Adichie, in an open letter to Mr Biden, criticised the US government for congratulating Bola Tinubu on his victory at the poll.
We can make mistakes.
“Additionally, in 2022, the SPDC JV, SNEPCo and SNG invested $5.6 million in education programmes and contributed $34.29 million in direct social investment.
After his time at the international Court of Justice in The Hague, Mr Ajibola took up a position in 1994, as a member to the Permanent Court of Arbitration with respect to the court’s deliberations on the land dispute between Nigeria and Cameroon.
The question is: will this provision not enhance accountability?
“Put simply, we did not believe that he did not own the cigarettes.
The ensuing cacophony has been truly bewildering.
The latest attack comes less than three weeks after gunmen killed four persons, including two personnel of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, in Ngor Okpala Local Government Area of the state.
She wrote that an unnamed stakeholder in the industry had warned her that the minister would want her out of office when two important contracts were due for renewal.
She said women and girls, particularly in Nigeria, need security, education and a better future.
“We stayed with them all night, in our pyjamas.
Atiku stated this in a statement by his Media Adviser, Paul Ibe, on Sunday in Abuja.
Elections have come and gone.
Also, the Minister of Labour and Employment, Chris Ngige, said the Nigerian government recognised the importance of Nigerian workers, and was committed to creating the right environment for them to thrive.
You are doing something but you are accusing someone else of doing it even though they are not.
Ms Keisha appealed to road users to be patient as the federal government was doing everything humanly possible to quickly fix the damaged portion.
“We expect this Board to help strengthen our journalism and those of other media platforms in our country,” Mr Mojeed said in the statement announcing the reconstitution of the Ombudsman Board.
President of Senate, Ahmad Lawan, said there was an authorised expenditure from 2021 and 2022 budgets of the commission.
Analysts believe that the strength of the third force’s performance was mirrored even better in the presidential elections when parties other than APC and PDP won elections in 13 states.
“But if you give a blanket approval to just go and start the building they can build with whatever material they can.
The 132,683 votes from his Akwa-Ibom State may be considered by party faithful as strong performance.
Myself and about two other comrades went to the Jeep and asked the owner to come down from the vehicle and do the needful, either he apologise to the man or takes care of him.
The state Chairman of NLC, Oguguo Egwu, a professor, said that there was the need for the government to engage more teachers, medical doctors and nurses.
Residents of Ikare awoke to sporadic shooting across the town on Monday morning
The judge adjourned the matter until 22 May for a hearing.
I enjoin industry stakeholders to give the incoming administration the support and cooperation I received from you,” he said.
Also speaking, Mr Doguwa said the business of selecting the leaders of the parliament should be left to the lawmakers, not outsiders that did so without consultation with the lawmakers.
The first was in 2019, while the second, third and fourth attained this position in 2021.
“To give way for better development for what Lagos has become, it is the gateway, we want to put hotels there, shopping malls, offices, cinemas and the rest of it so FAAN can make more money and the rest of…” he added.
As an example of the implication of weak enforcement of standards and regulations, the report identifies poor operation at the Obiafu-Obrikom Gas Plant in Rivers State which is run by Nigeria Agip Oil Company, a subsidiary of the Italian oil major, Eni.
Delivering the ruling on Tuesday, the Judge, Hannatu Balogun, stated that “having heard both Counsel, the oral application to stay hearing of the motion dated 17/12/2020 and filed on the same date cannot be granted because the matter in the Court of Appeal is an appeal against the grant of leave to amend the Plaintiffs’ processes.
Reacting to the development in a statement on Tuesday, the presidency said President Muhammadu Buhari recognised the verdict as well as the role of the judiciary in deepening rule of law and democracy.
The Lagos State Government had announced in February that the report of the autopsy it earlier conducted on the body revealed she died from “asphyxia and electrocution”, during the school’s inter-house sports event on 9 February.
It is said that at least 700,000 people die each year due to drug-resistant diseases.
The announcement also comes ahead of the BRICS summit which South Africa will host.
The minister also noted that the federal government is committed to providing a necessary enabling environment for sustainable direct investment in the feed industry and other sectors of the economy.
The first time I saw him was at the commissioning of Ogun airport,” Mr Sirika said.
Also, a former Vice-President, Nnamani Sambo, advised the party to investigate how members were suspended without recourse to due process.
In 2018, he also received the Martin E. Marty Award for the Public Understanding of Religion.
“The Commission has received nearly fifty (50) of these applications since the conclusion of the Presidential, National Assembly, Governorship and State Assembly elections in Rivers State and a good number of these applications have been processed in accordance with the date of receipt of such applications and payment of certification fees.
“However, it has now come to light that (the) subject has indeed voluntarily acquired citizenship of Guinea.”
“The Alaafin and the economic development of this town are inseparable,” said Mr Kamorudeen.
The Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF) and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, on Thursday released his book of his account of stewardship of the last eight years.
It accused the defendants of conspiring to commit an illegal act of accepting cash payments in the aggregate sum of N338.8 million from the House of Assembly, without going through a financial institution.
),” the minister stated.
It also depends on how the internal operations of the House are structured, designed and funded.
In all the 28 states that participated in the governorship election, less than half of the eligible population turned out to vote.
The clip of the incident which is being circulated on Twitter underscores the unending issue of police brutality in Nigeria after the 2020 historic endsars protests which led to the scrapping of a notorious police unit.
Police kill one terrorist, recover motorcycle in Kaduna
Earlier, the delegates had been bombarded with text messages from unknown persons predicting that Mr Tinubu would field a Muslim running mate if nominated the party’s presidential candidate.
At the time of this offence, he lived in London with his wife, his stepdaughter, aged 17, and his two biological children – the victim and his sister.
Governor of Plateau State, Simon Bako Lalong [PHOTO CREDIT: @sblalong]He called for the release and payment of worker’s gratuity both at the state and Local Government Council and the expedient passing of the bill established to facilitate the payment of gratuity and pension of retired workers in the state.
Guests invited to the inauguration ceremony are expected to be seated by 9: 00 a.m.
It is not possible to have more than one Speaker at a time neither is it possible to have more than one deputy speaker at a time, but there will always be something for everybody.
The UN Special Representative in Sudan, Volker Perthes, also continued engagement with parties on the ground, key Sudanese leaders and Member States, in trying to secure an immediate de-escalation in the fighting.
He said a letter containing details of the officers has been sent to the Accountant General of the Federation to enrol them into the federal government’s Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS).
The Crystal Sea Award, a $500 prize for the project that best expanded innovation in materials sciences or digital innovation, went to Team Baby Belt from Bangladesh University for Engineering and Technology.
“The amount in question was negotiated in a condition of war and where there are competing demands for same bus services by other countries also trying to evacuate their citizens,” the government explained through a joint press release by the ministries of foreign affairs and humanitarian affairs.
The group, in a statement jointly issued on Thursday by its Chairman, Bala Mohammed and Secretary, Boboye Akinrefon, also urged the party and members-elect to consider Francis Waive, a member representing Ughelli North/Ughelli South/Udu Federal Constituency of Delta State, for the position.
The President of the Yoruba movies directors guild, Seun Olaiya, broke the news of his demise on a WhatsApp platform for filmmakers.
Dominic Alancha, who spoke on behalf of the group, said the ruling party risks a repeat of the 8th Assembly, where Bukola Saraki and Yakubu Dogara, successfully revolted against the choices of the party.
According to the police spokesperson, the body of the officer has been deposited at the state morgue in Ibadan.
“In Oluyole Federal Constituency, two polling units affected have 3,014 registered voters, 2,869 of whom collected their PVCs.
Between December 2020 and March 2021, there have been at least five reported cases of abductions in northern Nigeria, including from schools, at Kankara, Kagara, Jangebe, Damishi Kaduna, Tegina and Yawuri while the threat of further attacks has led to the closure of over 600 schools in the north of the country.
Instead of complying with the guidelines and regulations on electronic results transmission, the electoral umpire “failed to comply with the law and instead adopted an illegal process of manual collation and transmission of the election results.”
If the Government is not able to provide the full victim list 60 days before sentencing, they shall file a motion to request an extension of time to compile the information,” the judge added.
"All shops and business premises along Rumuola to Rumuokwuta Roads in Obio/Akpor Local Government Area of the state shall remain closed from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m., on Wednesday."
Mr Okeleke argued that Mr Keyamo did not comply with the requirement of the law in filing the suit, arguing that he ought to have first obtained the leave of the court in seeking to compel an agency of the government to act.
Rates of diabetes and obesity have increased dramatically, driven by unhealthy diets and physical inactivity.
The Presidency has highlighted the impressive strides of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration in checkmating security issues between 2015 and 2023.
Environmental group warns financiers over TotalEnergies pipeline project
It has state-of-the-art solid-state amplifiers and an active antenna with Digital Beam Forming,” INVAP said.
It advised the government to deal with impunity surrounding blasphemy accusations.
Abdur-Rahman Balogun, Head of Media, Public Relations and Protocols Unit, NiDCOM, the returnees “left Port Sudan International Airport on Saturday at 7:20 a.m. local time, with 132 Nigerian nationals (evacuees) 124 adults, seven infants”.
Sanwo-Olu was a director in Aranda Resources Limited until 26 days before his first day in office as governor in May 2019.
We still have our roadmap in our hands.
The federal government contended that the Court of Appeal caused “a miscarriage of justice when it held that” Mr Kanu’s extradition from Kenya “is unlawful.”
Within the period, US prosecutors said, Woodberry defrauded “victim companies and other businesses by means of materially false and fraudulent pretences, representations, and promises.”
Bashir Gorau (PDP) member-elect, Gada-Goronyo federal constituency, Sokoto, described his victory as a tough battle against a ranking lawmaker who had been in the House for 16 years.
“The senate presidency is senators’ business and on the ‘D- day’ when we are going to elect our president, we will do the needful.
He passed away on Tuesday in Kano at the age of 86 after battling an undisclosed ailment.
Such records cannot be altered retroactively without the alteration of subsequent blocks and the consensus of the network.
“Since 2021, the USAID-MCGL, a five-year project, has been working with the state government through health, women affairs ministries, and indigenous non-governmental partners to implement a robust GBV prevention and response activity,” Mrs Oduenyi said.
Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party and Peter Obi of the Labour Party are at the election tribunal challenging the declaration of Mr Tinubu as the winner of the 2023 presidential election by the Independent National Electoral Commission.
On May 9 and 10, Gobeze appeared before the Lideta branch of the Federal High Court in Addis Ababa, where police accused him of terrorism and leading the media propaganda wing of an unnamed extremist group, according to court documents reviewed by CPJ.
Finnish prosecutors have alleged it was in those towns and other areas, including Kamatahun and Kortuhun that Mr Massaquoi raped and killed civilians, or ordered his solders to do so.
“As it is now, we used the money that we have gotten from the people in addition to what we had to secure the release of these four students.
We are yet to realize our target of becoming one of the top 10 nations globally for Ease of doing business,” he added.
Mr Agaba, through his counsel, E.D.
“We are very interested in all the history of the Benin Bronzes, some of which as you are aware, are still in the Netherlands.”
She was also reported to have delivered the lead judgement of the three-member panel of the Benin Division of the Court of Appeal that affirmed the first term election of Governor Godwin Obaseki in June 2017.
President Erdogan is struggling to keep his seat after a 20-year rule.
Nigeria has secured a World Bank facility worth $800 million.
The lawyer queried the competence of Atiku’s objection, arguing that it was filed when the court had not assumed jurisdiction over the case and before he could be served with the originating processes.
INEC stated this in a statement by its spokesperson, Festus Okoye.
Jos tanker explosion kills 13 people – Police
A Court of Appeal in the United Kingdom has granted permission to the family of Nnamdi Kanu, the detained leader of the outlawed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), to challenge a judgement which okayed the British government’s silence on his extraordinary rendition to Nigeria.
The Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), Hudu Ari, had illegally declared Mrs Dahiru the governor-elect, following last Sunday’s supplementary election in the state.
Mr Okey Wali, SAN was the 26th President of the NBA and has served this nation in varying capacities, contributing immensely to the growth of legal practice and in the promotion and entrenchment of the rule of law.
“I think it’s important to stress that all Nigerians are very safe.
“As we move forward as a nation, let us not forget the role that the judiciary plays in nation-building.
“The future is bright if all the constraints in the sector can be removed,” he said.
A daughter of the late Nigerian Head of State, Murtala Muhammed, Aisha Muhammed-Oyebode, has authored a book in honour of the abducted Chibok school girls.
Otherwise their world of false mythologies will collapse under their feet, and leave them dangling in the void.
Mr Makolo, a brigadier-general, commended the officers, instructors, facilitators and other staff of the centre for their commitment to the training.
In the video, the president-elect exchanged greetings and pleasantries with the senators-elect.
The Kaduna State Government had in 2020, demolished Durbar Hotel and revoked the Certificate of Occupancy which led to a legal tussle between the government and the Abacha family.
“The only option left was the legislative route.”
Mr Ndubueze, a former member of the House of Representatives, was elected into the parliament in 1992 where he represented Okigwe Federal Constituency of Imo State.
The proceedings ended on Friday, with the Court only able to hear nine of the eleven witnesses it had scheduled for this phase of the proceedings.
INEC had declared the 25 February election inconclusive following the cancellation of the Polling Unit 003 results in Manawaci in Fika Local Government Area leading to Saturday’s rerun.
WHO noted that further support is needed for recovery, resilience and preparedness, adding that most countries have started to apply what they have learnt during the COVID-19 pandemic.
They have qualified for the World Cup four times in total and their best-ever performance was in 2001 when they finished third after beating Argentina 2-0 in the play-off.
A number of us have attended those meetings and we had fruitful discussions.
They outlined internal government discussions about the arbitration case, giving P&ID extraordinary insight into Nigeria’s thinking.
“I volunteer to do a Public Due Process review of this transaction for you.
She alleged that he does not take care of her and the children.
Easter: Buhari charges citizens to believe in Nigeria for better season ahead
The petitioners also sued Musa Nakhla, said to be the Managing Director of the Managing Director of Soleh Boneh and director at the two Reynolds firms.
He added that Mr Fagbewesa did not put any cigarettes in the bags and they were not in there when he checked in his bags at Lagos airport.
Speaking, a beneficiary, Dipo Diya, said he was grateful.
President Muhammadu Buhari has commended his chief personal security officer (CPSO) and other security officers and personnel on their excellent work towards ensuring his safety and that of his family.
The president-elect polled 8.8 million votes to beat Atiku Abubakar, the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) who came second and Labour Party’s Peter Obi who came third in the 25 February election.
“As a United Nations (UN) Malaria Ambassador for Nigeria, I would like to add my voice to the global call on governments and partners around the world to: Invest more in malaria programmes to bridge critical funding gaps and accelerate progress towards the total elimination of malaria.
NiMet urged all airline operators to avail themselves of weather reports periodically from its office to plan their operations effectively.
However, the exercise of such mandates including imposing any fine must follow the thresholds and guidelines set by the right to freedom of expression and media freedom.”
Lagos, Nigeria’s most populous state and the state with the highest number of eligible voters recorded an abysmal 19 per cent voter turnout amid reports of violence and voter suppression.
“We strongly believe that justice will be achieved at appeal so that patriotic youthful elements in the society like our clients will not be discouraged from embarking on their respective altruistic endeavours,” Mr Gambari said.
Mr Maihanchi, 37, was elected to represent the Jalingo, Yerro, and Zing Federal Constituency of Taraba State after he defeated the incumbent, Kasimu Maigatari.
“The media does not change society.
I am one among many which include captains of industries, military generals, billionaires, and hard-working old students who are scattered across the globe from all Nigerian ethnic groups and who have adopted Kaduna as our cradle.
Announcing the fare on Friday at the commission’s Hajj House head office in Abuja, NAHCON Chairman, Zikirullah Kunle Hassan, said pilgrims flying from Yola and Maiduguri will pay N2,8000,000 while those flying from other northern states will pay N2,919,000.00 only.
“What we signed on 25 April is simply the opening phase that will determine how far we will go, but definitely showcases how interested the international partners are in tapping into the Niger Delta region,” Mr Abosede said adding that the model is to provide alternative sources of funding for key projects and programmes of the commission.
However, the duo continue to shun the committee.
Mr Nguroje further stated that preliminary investigation so far reveals that the suspect is a father of three and now leaving alone after he separated from his wife 10 years ago.
Atiku and Mr Obi are in their separate petitions challenging the outcome of the election, alleging that the conduct of the election by Nigeria’s electoral body, INEC, violated various provisions of the Electoral Act.
Mr Obi came third with 6,101,533 votes.
“Recall that on Tuesday, April 4, the Clerk to the National Assembly was directed to transmit Constitution Alteration Bill No.
This was a sequel to a motion moved by Istifanus Gynag (APC, Plateau North) at the plenary session on Wednesday.
“From the collation officers in the field who were supposed to collate, they all came back and had written reports, and the result sheets they supposed to fill are all here.
“As a result of the email, approximately $188,191.50 was sent to 8208 account.
According to the memo which is the outcome of a meeting held on 8 April, the governors warned Mr Tinubu that the “over-investment” by the aspirants may make zoning impossible if action is not taken quickly.
Following the unfortunate death of the student, the deceased’s parents accused the school management of negligence.
“Since the Bill was transmitted to Mr President for his assent by the Clerk of the National Assembly on the 12th April, 2023, the Senate has been inundated with several entreaties as to the status of the Bill, especially the Organisation that is sought to give statutory backing after Mr President’s assent to the Bill.”
The bill has been forwarded to President Muhammadu Buhari for his approval.
“Kabiyesi Alase, this is the product of your consistent investment in the promotion of our prestigious culture and preservation of the Yoruba history.
The commission, according to the statement, called several witnesses and tendered documents during the trial.
The prosecutor, Nelson Akintimehin, a police inspector, informed the court that the accused conspired to commit a felony and murder of Mr Olorunfemi, who was wrongly suspected to be a fraudster, also known as “Yahoo boy”.
“Our party also lauds the Adamawa State Returning Officer, Mohammed Mele for his courage in standing on the side of justice, due process and democracy in the discharge of his duty.”
The discourse around it stresses Mr Tinubu’s alleged ineligibility to contest for or hold the office of Nigeria’s presidency owing to his alleged Guinean citizenship.
The Director, Defence Media Operations, Musa Danmadami, made this known in a statement on Sunday in Abuja.
But NASSCO on Wednesday said the facility “will benefit at least 10.2 million poor and vulnerable Nigerian households (in rural and urban poor areas) by way of targeted cash transfers to cushion the effects of existing social and economic shocks (Covid, inflation, naira redesign cash crunch, flood losses etc) including the anticipated petrol subsidy removal.”
In a statement seen by PREMIUM TIMES on Thursday, ICRC said its governing board had approved cost savings totalling 450 million CHF ($475.30 million) in one year between 2023 and early 2024.
One of the police officers rode the motorcycle away while the others followed behind in a tricycle, leaving the young man injured and bleeding.
He emphatically stated that the APC had harvested enough evidence and witnesses to present at the tribunal to prove that the governorship election was massively rigged in favour of the PDP.
On his plans after leaving office, the president said he feels fulfilled that God had made it possible for him to serve two terms of four years each and looks forward to an orderly handover.
She said the defendant also acted in a manner that endangered the life of the complainant and also conducted herself in a manner likely to cause breach of public peace while on lawful duty.
The court, presided by Justice Swift, had ruled that the British authorities could lawfully evade reaching any conclusion on whether Mr Kanu was subjected to torture, detention and extraordinary rendition.
The state government, through the Enugu Capital Territory Development Authority, late April, began an announcement on various radio stations in the state informing owners of the properties of its plan to demolish the properties.
He also agreed that the commission, not being Nigerian police, had no power to conduct a criminal investigation that would lead to criminal trial and imposition of sanctions.
He said he also left the company because he wanted to pursue his academic aspirations.
I am elected to represent Nigerians and to ensure justice.
“Nobody knew where it came from, but they all loved it and were ready to assert it.
For example in the first quarter of 2020, ICT alone contributed 14.07 per cent to the country’s GDP.
The event will hold at 11 am on May 25 both on-site at the NNPC Hall at the AUST campus in Abuja, and on zoom.
“The 36 chairmen recommend that a NEC meeting should be called without further delay,’’ he said.
Another 20 institutions are ready this year, that is one of the importance of the special impact project,” he said.
Mr. Aig-Imoukhuede, the founder of the African Initiative for Governance (AIF), will explore the imperative of collaboration between the public and private sector;
• Akpan Ekong Samson Akwa Ibom South
“The only problem we are having is consultation.
Eyewitnesses said direct clashes broke out on Tuesday between units of the Sudanese Army and RSF fighters in the Jabra area in the south of Khartoum and the areas of Arkaweet, Al-Mamoura and El-Jeraif in the east of the capital.
The judge, however, said that the court did not have the medical report of the defendant.
“And you don’t know who is who; so, it is for the witness’ protection.
More than 700 students from secondary, primary and institutional platforms in Rivers State, participated in the competition.
“Fellow Nigerians, Nigeria is built on the supremacy of the law and the sacredness of the constitution for justice to reign and to keep the peace in the country,” he said.
28 – 04 – 2023
The examination body announced the new development in a statement by its Head of Public Affairs and Protocol, Fabian Benjamin.
“Only few other establishments, including the core civil service, are now left out.
Mr Traoré is the world’s youngest currently serving state leader at the age of 34.
On the other hand, Zamfara had 27 per cent followed by Oyo at 26 per cent; Taraba at 26 per cent; Akwa Ibom at 25 per cent; and Kogi at 25 per cent.
Mr Gbajabiamila said one of the lessons learnt during the holy month of Ramadan was that of compassion and care for the needy.
This is how democracy thrives.
Messrs. Dangote, Rabiu and Adenuga are the only three Nigerians on the Forbes list.
“It’s my hope that our leaders will work together to realise its proper take-off and sustainable functioning for the benefits of our youths.”
He hails from Ago Are, Oyo State.
Foreign exchange turnover within the market period was pegged at $95.45 million at the close of trading on Tuesday.
They said instead of cancelling the result from the ward; she ought to wait for the ward collation officer to return or generate the result “through different means as prescribed by the relevant statute.”
He said the incident, which occured at 11:30 p.m. on Friday, was triggered by an electricity power surge which caused some electrical appliances in the apartment to explode.
If any member of an incorporated trustee had a problem with the way the trustees ran the association, they had the power to go to court to ventilate their grievances.
“This is one murder too many for us to swallow.”
The governors had recommended the zoning of the Senate President to either the South-east or the South-south and the Speaker of the House of Representatives to either the North-west or the North-central.
A witness told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Tuesday that the victim was abducted by four men at the front of his residence in Eket at about 9:00 p.m. on Sunday.
One of such persons that has been speculated in the media to have sought a study leave is Central Bank of Nigeria Governor Godwin Emefiele.
It said residents of the community complained that they suffer severe health impacts, “including cancers, eye, bronchial, rheumatic, neurological, cardiovascular, developmental, and reproductive disorders.”
He said the reports the lawmakers are getting regarding the consensus arrangement will spell doom for the legislature.
Let them know that this bill will not run you into extinction, but it will compliment you.
The President-elect, Bola Tinubu, has been named one of the 100 most influential people in the World by TIME Magazine.
Mr Kanu’s lawyer, Mr Ozekhome had argued that his client was “illegally extradited from Kenya.”
What the Buhari administration has done to our people through the Fulani militants as confirmed by Shehu Garba is to spit on the graves of our compatriots mowed down needlessly by Fulani militia.
They are all participating in a presidential election petition court for the first time.
“By 2019 when the 9th assembly was inaugurated, the nation’s financial year or budget cycle had become notorious for being unreliable and uncertain.
Speaking on the issue, the Group Corporate Communications and Event Manager, Dufil Prima Foods Limited, Tope Ashiwaju, said, “We would like to assure our valued customers in Nigeria that all packs of Indomie Instant Noodles consumed in Nigeria are produced locally under strict international best manufacturing procedures with ISO certified standards.
After the family reported the matter to Oke Ovoro Police Station, we began aggressive combing of a bush along Mbutu Road and we finally found the inspector’s body,” a police officer, who asked not to be named, told this newspaper, Wednesday morning.
Shell denies breach of Nigerian Content Law
Sulaiman adopted the written address as part of his argument and urged the court to refuse the second defendant’s application.
But his classification of the peace talks contradicts the testimonies of other defense witnesses.
In answering your questions, these are some of the steps I have taken – these are steps that some women will not take in the past.
NEPZA targets $22bn investment from Delta special economic zone
The Washington-based lender in a report titled ‘IMF Executive Board Concludes 2022 Article IV Consultation with Nigeria’ urged the authorities to deliver on their “commitment to increase well-targeted social spending.”
No,” he stated.
Mr Tinubu was declared winner of the election in Rivers.
Damian Okeke-Ogene, the vice-president of the apex Igbo socio-cultural organisation, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, says it has not yet been decided that Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu is the group’s president-general, contrary to media reports.
Lagos government says some persons sustained injuries in the incident but there was no fatality.
The FRSC officer is seen slapping the victim who had accused him of breaking his car's windscreen
Such funding could help them develop wildlife crime prevention strategies and collaborative local, national and cross-border interventions.
“On the whole this appeal fails and it is hereby dismissed.”
He said the document contained 60 paragraphs with 15 other sub-paragraphs embedded in them.
Mr Shehu said that approvals were also made for the Ministry of Works for the rehabilitation of several roads across the country.
He said: “In the case of Adamawa State where supplementary governorship election was held in 69 polling units, two National Commissioners were deployed while for Kebbi State involving 142 polling units, three National Commissioners were deployed.
“Voters compared their cellphone photos with the uploaded photos and saw alterations: numbers crossed out and rewritten; some originally written in black ink had been rewritten in blue, some blunderingly white-out with Tipp-Ex.
But what has our own newly inaugurated commission to do with all the global efforts?
Later that day, the board announced that it has rescheduled the test for all candidates who experienced hitches.
NAN reports that the judge had, on 18 April, refused to hear an ex-parte motion filed by Binani.
She defended the letter she wrote and spoke of her support for the presidential candidate of the Labour Party, Peter Obi.
“That’s why two stayed behind to continue talking to him while we took the four home,” he said.
Asked whether these payments were bribes, Murray said: “I wouldn’t be surprised if they were, but I don’t find the sums disturbingly high.”
“I avail myself of this opportunity to express my heartfelt wishes for the health and happiness of Your Excellency, as well as, the well-being and prosperity of the friendly people of Nigeria.”
However, in another video that surfaced, it appeared that she had been instructed to recant her initial statement.
Mr Adejobi said that officers would not be asked to vacate their apartments until the money was paid to them for new accommodation.
The Golden Eaglets maintained the pressure on their opponents, and their efforts were rewarded in the 65th minute when Emmanuel Michael set up Abubakar Abdullahi for a clinical finish, giving Nigeria a well-deserved 3-2 lead.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that some members of the House had by 9 a.m. on Tuesday, purportedly suspended the speaker for “his insensitivity to the welfare of members and other sundry activities”.
However, on Tuesday, he took to Twitter, a microblogging site, to subtly comment on the issue while addressing allegations of treason made by the Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed.
The Cabotage Act provides that two per cent of the contract sum performed by any vessel engaged in Cabotage trade shall be paid into the CVFF for the development of domestic coastal shippers.
Businesses were forced to close shops, while some residents fled their homes on Monday evening because of the shootout between the rival gangs.
A House of Representatives member-elect, Isma’ila Maihanchi has died.
The governor assured Kogi residents of continuity in the infrastructure renewal masterplan, which his administration had embarked upon for more than seven years.
AfDB appoints new Vice President
Nigerian laws currently do not allow citizens in the Diaspora to vote.
Hope Yusuf Linus (E.E.
“The economy has experienced huge exchange rate depreciation which had already exacerbated vehicle acquisition cost in the first place.”
His wife received a lesser sentence due to her more limited involvement, the judge ruled.
With the humour built around the characters, which makes viewers laugh, there is little or no consideration for the characters’ facial expressions regarding believability.
Still, the rowdiness consistently experienced within the past week at the Lagos office of the examination body informed the latest decision.
He said the armed forces had over the years been desirous of having a dedicated and secure communication platform that could be deployed to enhance administrative, logistical, and operational activities.
But when taken inappropriately like overdose, too short or too long duration, taken when there is no infection or for the wrong infection, the bacteria do not die instantly but they adapt,” she said.
“Deepfake” technology has progressed steadily for nearly a decade and can create talking digital puppets.
The state chairman of the Trade Union Congress called on the incoming administration to show increased commitment to workers’ welfare by demonstrating genuine empathy to their affairs.
Easter 2023: Atiku, Obi, Sanwo-Olu, others felicitate Christians
10th NASS Leadership: Governor Akeredolu condemns APC zoning arrangement, calls for fairness, equity
A statement sent to PREMIUM TIMES from the minister’s special adviser on communications, Hakeem Bello, said Mr Fashola disclosed this in his remarks at the Shelter Afrique 2023 42nd AGM’s roundtable session of African ministers at the congress hall of Transcorp Hilton on Tuesday, 9 May.
But because they could not deliver their judgement before their exit, parties to the suit had to make their final submission before the new panel.
Haemophilia is a rare genetic bleeding disorder that causes the blood to take a long time to clot because of a deficiency in one of several blood clotting factors.
He said the prosecution will not only be in the interest of the criminal justice delivery but will further the vision of the police to sanitise the country’s democratic space.
She said although most member states in the African region have integrated the attainment of UHC as a central goal of their national health strategies, progress remains varied in translating this progress into equitable and quality services as well as increasing financial protection for the population.
It was an unforgettable time for his fans who had yearned for some live performance and new music from their favourite who was off the radar for five months
Meanwhile, Francis Waive (APC, Delta) has also declared interest in contesting for the deputy speaker position.
The President has directed the immediate investigation and prosecution, if found liable, of Barr.
“The REC, Returning Officer and all involved are hereby invited to the Commission’s Headquarters in Abuja immediately.”
So, we need to actually follow the rules and enforce these rules.
Al Jazeera reports that the provisional death toll report is that 34 auxiliaries from the Volunteers for the Defence of the Fatherland (VDP) and six soldiers were killed.
“It is going to be a cloud-based system, the best modern technology, fully digitised to facilitate prompt response to any distress or emergency on fire.
That is the honest truth.
The report, according to the petitioners, however, said the officer was able to conclude the collation after normalcy returned.
The total votes cast in Lagos was 1.3 million; Plateau 1.1 million and 1.09 million in Katsina.
The Labour Party leaders clashed as the Presidential Election Petition Court resumed sitting on Wednesday.
The NWC ratified the arrangement on Monday during a special meeting at the national secretariat of the APC in Abuja.
As he turns 85 today, Oyo State stands in awe of a politician with a political finesse that is fast ebbing in the Nigeria of today.
The President and Vice-chancellor of the university, Bill Flanagan, congratulated Mr Oriola noting that he was thrilled to see the Nigerian’s research recognized in this way, and “I wish you all the very best as you pursue this very compelling and timely research project.”
Peter Obi, being the only Christian in the contest seemed to be the go-to option for Christian voters while Mr Kwankwaso being the only candidate from the populous North-west also excelled at the polls in that region, especially in Kano state where he was a two-time governor.
Others were Bala Abubakar, Sokoto North/Sokoto South Constituency, Sa’adu Nabunkari, Binji/ Silame Constituency, and Jelani Danbuga, Isa/Sabon Birni Federal Constituency.
It also called on the company to issue an unreserved apology to the Christian community and withdraw the “offensive” advert immediately.
And we still are,” CNN quoted him as saying in the video.
The matured bids not delivered by CBN amounted to $186.5 million accounting for 26 per cent of total blocked funds while three stakeholders (IATA, Qatar Airways, and Ethiopian Airlines) accounted for 57 per cent of total blocked funds.
“Also, 1,000 rounds of 7.62mm NATO (belted), 243 round of 7.62mm x 54mm special ammo, 89 rounds of 5.56mm by 45mm special, 16 AK47 magazines, seven dane guns and the sum of N103,505 only, as well as other sundry items, were recovered.
“They did not take us, so we did not go,” Mr Ahmed said.
While the parents revealed that two medical reports already confirmed “injury and physical trauma” in her vagina, the spokesperson for the police in Lagos State, Benjamin Hundeyin, on Friday, tweeted that the suspect has been “arrested and is still in custody.”
Ghana first to approve new Oxford’s R21 vaccine against Malaria
Meanwhile, efforts by this newspaper to get additional details from the ministry proved abortive on Monday.
Africa’s demographic profile, mineral resources and growing integration make it a bloc too big and influential to ignore.
Others are Halima Muhammad (Business Administration), Ismail Kaoje (Geography), Aliyu Umar (European Languages) and Auwal Mustapha (Physics with Electronics).
“The numbers of those accounts, both abroad and in Nigeria were clearly stated in those letters.
The 64-year-old Senior Advocate of Nigeria was kidnapped along East-West Road in Obio/Akpor Local Government Area of Rivers State in the early hours of Monday, the NBA statement said.
“The apex cum constitutional court must understand that the abuse of Appeal Court orders because it is ruled in favour of Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, will ridicule them before the whole world and eventually embolden the executive branch to become a law unto itself going forward,” he added.
Mr Macpherson argued that the luggage had been outside of Mr Fagbewesa’s control for several days and it was possible that someone else had interfered with the luggage in that time
Adamawa Governorship: APC, Keyamo celebrate “illegal” declaration of Binani
Speaking on sustainable plans, Mr Sirika said: “Well, we are committed and luckily it is APC that will be in power again.
“No individual should be treated as a sacred cow.”
A staffer who spoke anonymously said the hospital could not shut down because the doctors were on strike.
He urged the court to dismiss the remaining 8-count charge for being a violation of Mr Kanu’s fundamental rights to freedom.
The meeting was held at the National Assembly complex.
The group had invited Nigerians to sign an appeal on an online platform in support of the initiative.
”Despite some pockets of violence, we have demonstrated that a government can be elected peacefully and fairly.
Ms Adichie, 45, had said in her open letter to Mr Biden that the process of the Nigerian presidential poll was imperilled by “deliberate manipulation” and the “electoral commission ignored so many glaring red flags in its rush to announce a winner.”
Mr Tinubu’s term as president, if his declaration is upheld by the judiciary, will be made or marred by how effective his administration interacts with these new groups.
Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Ahmed Wase [PHOTO CREDIT: Hon Ahmed Idris Wase on Facebook]The deputy speaker expressed his heartfelt condolences to the government and people of Taraba State over his death.
“This is something that is alarming to this committee for the CBN to declare before us because we are aware of constitutional provisions that state all revenue accruing to the federation must be paid into the Federation Account,” he said.
I met him yesterday and the election is today.
The Centre is hosting the special event to celebrate Africa Day 2023.
The current woes of the Ekweremadus came to limelight in June 2022 when news of his (Ike Ekweremadu) arrest made the news.
The actor shot to fame following his role in the movie ‘Omo Rapala.’
It is null, void and of no effect.
The main opposition PDP won in Plateau State.
“You will all agree with me that in view of the importance of the security of lives and property such equipment has to be installed at our railway stations.
The Eagle Square is still available for all these individuals.
Following the injunction, the ministry also wrote to the Inspector General of Police in a letter referenced FME/LU/HQ/S/434/23/1/53 and dated 4 May to enforce the court order.
Mr Bandele, who welcomed the returnees on behalf of the Federal Government, said there were no more stranded Nigerian women and children in Sudan.
Muktar Betara Aliyu’s solid and intimidating antecedents with regards to his Legislative prowess over the years thus, singling him out as the suitable person over other contestants,” the communiqué stated.
In any case, a careful scrutiny of the results of the elections shows that it was a close and tight contest which speaks to its credibility.
“The victory of today’s event is a victory dedicated to God Almighty and a victory that I will cherish for a long time.
Tudun Wada local government was where I had my rerun covering 13 poling units.
“President Muhammadu Buhari informally requested the Attorney-General, making reference to my humble person, Mele Kyari, Lawal Daura, former DG of DSS; and late Abba Kyari; to look into it and advise.
Atiku said that the people of Adamawa would not allow the injustice to pass without being challenged.
“When I learnt my skill, I paid for it but I am giving back my knowledge free of charge to these women as a way of spreading Good Deeds,” she said.
Recall that in 2019, the last time general elections were held in Nigeria before 2023, 72 cases of press attacks were reported, and 45 cases were already reported in Q1 2023.
“It is more worrisome that security agencies are watching while an airline that is discharging its duties to the country is being harassed and hounded by unions at these airports.
He also prayed for an accelerated hearing of the matter.
World Health Day is celebrated on 7 April annually to draw attention to specific health topics of concern globally
The police in Delta State have dismissed an officer, Ubi Ebri for allegedly killing a man in the state over N100 bribe.
“Consequently, NCC is advised to immediately withdraw the advert and cease and desist any further action on the 470MHz-694MHz band,” the letter reads.
Mr Akinbajo is the only West African on the advisory board of Mundus Journalism where he contributes to developing ideas to ensure that the programme remains at the cutting edge of global journalism practice, scholarship, and research.
From the background remarks, apparently made by people who were secretly recording the assault, it appeared the incident happened in Owerri, Imo State.
“You voted for continuity in the provision of healthcare and health insurance that make it easier for the vulnerable to access quality health service with ease.
Derrick Uhunmwago said in his petition that he won the Egor State Constituency seat convincingly at the end of the first round of the election, but it was unjustifiably declared inconclusive to create room for rigging.
“I was recruited into the Navy in 2019.
The Nigerian government has approved a new malaria vaccine from Oxford University, becoming the second country after Ghana in the world to grant such approval.
“The Company welcomes this expression of confidence in its leadership and management as we continue our unwavering commitment to superior stakeholders’ returns, anchored in our ideology of Africapitalism,” Transcorp said in a regulatory filing.
“You would also agree that many road users applauded them for a job well done.
The Nigerian government has, for decades, subsidised fuel and fixed retail prices of petroleum products.
Reacting, the Traditional Prime Minister otherwise known as Onowu, Tochukwu Mgbako, said that it was now that the community has their “God-given monarch” who went through the normal process to be crowned.
The Electoral Umpire, basking in self- confidence, assured Nigerians that these would be the most transparent and seamless elections in our history.
“It appears Egypt wants the students to be profiled,” he told PREMIUM TIMES.
Mr Aduda noted that the Ministry of Petroleum Resources is playing a crucial role in the effective utilization of gas resources in Nigeria, by developing policies and regulations that encourage the use of gas, promoting investment in gas infrastructure, and developing a competitive and efficient gas market.
The Peace Corps Bill was sponsored by Mr Ndume and it has been passed by the National Assembly.
“Please avoid Nwaniba, it’s not safe,” she had written about four minutes before her cry for help.
The VC also regularised the appointment of Jamilu Magaji as the substantive Public Relations Officer and Head, Information and Public Relations of the University, it added.
Meanwhile, SDN said it reached out to NAOC in the course of its research work and that the company’s General Manager for the District, identified as Geordano Crema, replied to its communication on its findings and that the allegations were denied.
If not, they wouldn’t have gone to town to mock the slain in their graves.
He however lives in the UK.
“Yes it is true.
The Maiduguri Zonal Command of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, on Wednesday, April 12, 2023, secured the conviction and sentencing of one Muhammad Abdullahi Kulloma to one year imprisonment before Justice Umaru Fadawu of Borno State High Court, Maiduguri
However, speaking on the motion for transfer of Mr Kanu out of the custody of the SSS, the counsel for the federal government prayed for an adjournment to file a counter-affidavit stating that he just took over the matter.
Meanwhile, Blessing Oladunjoye of BONews said, within the past three days of the training, she has been able to interact with and build a supportive network of female journalists.
Stop giving credence to IPOB, Nigerian govt tells Western nations
Messrs Obi and Atiku, as well as their parties, are still challenging the result of the presidential election at the election court.
The National Hajj Commission has appointed Azman Air to airlift the state's intending pilgrims to the holy land.
However, PREMIUM TIMES had reviewed the results posted on the IREV portal by INEC and discovered that Mr Obi, not Mr Tinubu, actually won the election in Rivers State and should have been declared the winner in the state.
Speakership: Gbajabiamila meets members-elect amid fierce opposition to Abbas as APC candidate
Mr Sanwo-Olu gave the order on Saturday during his visit to the site of the collapsed seven-storey building and inspection of other infrastructure around the Island.
The police spokesperson said the corpse was deposited at the Ifo General Hospital morgue for autopsy.
In its petition, the APM whose presidential candidate, Chichi Ojei, polled 25,961 votes, argued that Mr Tinubu was not properly sponsored by the APC by fielding Mr Shettima as vice presidential candidate for the election.
Before then, the panel had invited and interrogated directors and senior workers at NIPC, who were said to have been victimised by the Executive Secretary.
NEMA had announced that the first batch of 1,600 Nigerians evacuated were expected to arrive in Abuja last Friday.
The workers who requested anonymity for fear of being victimised said this was the first time workers in the state would celebrate both Ramadan fasting and Eid El Fitr celebrations without salaries.
“I am particularly delighted that this plant was designed and fabricated by Nigerian engineers following the call by the Council to reduce the perennial post-harvest wastages associated with onion and garlic,” he said.
In the constitution, you have to exhaust that mechanism in court.
The company’s PE ratio is 3.8x, while its EPS is N4.5.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that a judge, Ramon Oshodi, remanded the founder of I Reign Christian Ministry in Kirikiri Correctional Centre pending the fulfilment of his bail conditions.
I fail to understand just where the station could be faulted, except from a disposition for injustice.
The police have, however, confirmed that Mr Ari is in custody, adding that other officials and individuals culpable in the saga are being interrogated by the Election Planning, Monitoring, and Evaluation Team.
He said there would be a census of the residents in barracks, to ascertain genuine officers living in those facilities, stressing that they will be given money to secure accommodation for two years, which the project was expected to last.
The 10th National Assembly will be inaugurated on 13 June.
The minister wished all Christians a most blissful celebration and all Nigerians a happy holiday.
Adamawa Supplementary Poll: Atiku deplores REC’s action, says it’s treasonable
The finance minister said the $800 million is the first tranche of palliatives to be disbursed through cash transfers to about 50 million Nigerians, who belong to the most vulnerable category of society.
“The PDP also demands for the immediate arrest and prosecution of the Adamawa State Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), Mallam Hudu Yunusa Ari, for making such illegal declaration in criminal usurpation of the duties and powers of the Returning Officer, Prof Mohammed Mele, while collation was on-going.”
The Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, said Mr Malami has “distinguished himself as legal luminary and as a custodian of President Buhari’s values of integrity.”
The deceased founded the African Concern in 1994.
The petitioner further alleged that voters who turned down the president-elect’s inducement “were refused from voting, thereby reducing the votes ordinarily accruing to” it.
By the grace of God, he has promised to work with Nigeria’s gender policy, which is an international treaty that we have ratified here.
Fashola also had a hand in Aranda Resources Limited.
But those are not just the problems; the problems are that the right of way has been severely encroached on between FCT, Niger and Kaduna states.
Alleging treason, Mr Mohammed said it was wrong for Mr Obi on one breadth to seek redress in court over the outcome of the polls and on another breadth incite people to violence.
She, however, noted that the investigations being conducted are simply being cautious.
The second half saw a twist in the game as Inter put pressure on their opponents.
Mr Nwite then stood down the matter to allow non-parties in the anti-narcotic suit against the suspended police officers to move out.
To this effect, all our party executives at the ward in Misau local government have signed and henceforth he ceases to be a member of APC in Misau LGA,” Mr Hassan – Adamu said.
In the Second Republic, the ruling National Party of Nigeria (NPN) went into alliance with the Nigeria Peoples Party (NPP) to produce the presiding officers of the Senate and the House because of its narrow majority in both chambers.
“Since emerging as the “Greater Majority,” with a combined members-elect tally of 183, as against the APC’s total of 177, history beckons on us to constructively, and creatively, chart the path towards the deepening of our nation’s democracy,” they said.
“The suspect, who had been indicted by the earlier arrested members of the syndicate as the person who bought the two legs of the victim, took to flight immediately after he heard that he had been mentioned by his colleagues.
“Those who are taking this action are members of the party who have since been suspended, and as at the time they took this action, their suspension had not been lifted."
The police in Kano charged Mr Doguwa with murder for allegedly killing three people during the 25 February election.
A total of 5,500 Nigerians are expected to benefit from the evacuation.
He explained that the recovered amount was returned in the presence of the DPO Ipetu-Ijesa, Seriki Owena, and the head of the Hausa community.
“And for the past 3 years, WHO has coordinated the global response to the COVID-19 pandemic – the most severe health crisis in a century.
He sought re-election as governor under the PDP platform but was denied the party ticket under controversial circumstances amidst an internal crisis within the party at the time.
Mexican journalist Carmen Aristegui named 2023 IPI-IMS World Press Freedom Hero
The police spokesperson added that an effort is ongoing to arrest Umar Awara and other members of the syndicate while those arrested will be arraigned in court for prosecution as soon as the investigation is concluded.
“On our part we are ready and our witnesses are in court,” Idachaba said.
Mr Buhari had earlier directed the postponement of the census initially scheduled for 3 to 7 May.
The PPRO pledged the commitment of the command at sustaining efforts to prevent threats to the safety and security of FCT residents.
Mr Umar said zoning the position to the North-west will encourage the party to vote for the ruling party in future elections.
Mr Obi came third in the election but he, and Atiku Abubakar of the PDP, who came second, is challenging the victory of Mr Tinubu of the ruling APC.
This was followed by North-central with 17.2 per cent; South-west with 16.3 per cent; North-east with 13.2 per cent; South-south with 11 per cent; and South-east with 8.7 per cent.
PREMIUM TIMES earlier reported that the Old Students’ Association of Federal Government Colleges (FGC) in Nigeria accused the state government of illegally encroaching on the school’s land, calling appropriate authorities to intervene urgently.
Lai Mohammed said the president’s analysis of the reasons for the opposition’s loss in the 2023 elections is incontrovertible.
But, countless Nigerians whose futures he has improved, will fondly remember him for good.
The state INEC Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) Cyril Omorogbe, said this when he addressed reporters in his office in Uyo on Saturday.
The Chairman of the Committee, Mark Gbillah (LP, Benue), on Thursday, announced that Mr Malami, who had ignored previous invitations, will appear before the committee on 27 April, after the public holiday.
Mr Victor said when he met the officer-in-charge of the police unit, Patrick Agbazue in his office, over the incident, he told him that he (Victor) should be talking about the release of Ms Asadu and that Mr Asadu would never be released.
A reading higher than 50 points to growth, while any below that threshold implies a shrinking in PMI, which assesses the overall direction that business condition in the manufacturing industry is headed.
The judge added that any party dissatisfied with this decision has a right to apply for permission to appeal against it pursuant to Rule 39 of the Tribunal Procedure (First-tier Tribunal) (Tax Chamber) Rules 2009.
Chimamanda betrays her ignorance of Nigerian politics and unwittingly misled her readers when she wrote that “Nigerian democracy had long been a two-party structure -power alternating between the APC and the PDP – until this year, when the Labour Party, led by Peter Obi, became a third force.
PREMIUM TIMES reported that the Nigerians were part of the over 1000 people, mainly foreigners, that Saudi Arabia evacuated by ship from Sudan.
“This is because it has been decided that we will transport or convey Nigerian to the Egyptian border Aswan.
DHQ says the terrorists were eliminated in North-west and North-central in the last two weeks.
The phrase was popularised by the president-elect, Bola Tinubu.
Subsequently, she became a principal financial analyst in the Financial Technical Services Division, where she was responsible for clients’ financial solutions across the continent.
Still, he insisted that “as a responsible organisation that values its integrity and the dignity of every single student, the best decision would be taken.”
Similarly, gunmen invaded the house of one Joshua Yusuf in Mayo Dassa in Jalingo, the state capital, and kidnapped his wife, two kids and his domestic staff.
The lone accident involved a Toyota Hiace bus conveying 18 persons, including the driver.
“Every candidate and examination functionary must play by the rules, which are well stipulated in the WAEC Syllabus and Guidelines for the conduct of examinations, issued to schools,” Mr Areghan said adding that erring candidates would lose their results.
CPJ noted two ongoing suits instituted against the Nigerian Communications Commission in 2017 and 2018 “over regulations granting warrantless access to telecom subscribers’ information”.
“This includes creating an enabling environment and partnerships with the private sector to build pipelines, storage facilities, and other infrastructure necessary for the transportation and storage of gas.
But the case went into a pause after he fled the country in the wake of a military invasion of his home in Afara-Ukwu, Abia State, while he was on bail in September 2017.
According to the sector commander, the driver lost control of the vehicle when it had a burst tire.
The letter attracted to Ms Adichie criticism from supporters of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC).
“These are in addition to maintenance, efficiency, accommodation, and expansion of forces.
The 63-year-old, who occupies a relatively distant 12th position on the seniority list of the 76 judges of the Court of Appeal, must be well-regarded to be appointed to head the panel, a prized responsibility that is ordinarily reserved for the president of the court, some lawyers have said.
The COVID-19 pandemic is still very much around and Nigerians must protect themselves against the virus by taking recommended doses of the vaccines.
Until Lazarus and the rich man, Dives, can sit around the same table, there can be no just peace or justice (Lk.
In Lagos State, the PDP spokesperson, Hakeem Amode, told NAN that the chapter was elated that the Supreme Court reaffirmed the mandate given to Mr Adeleke at the election.
“Justice should not be for sale, it should not be for highest bidders.
Yet, moments of downturn like this when most stocks are seeing continuous declines are often the best time to invest because equities become cheaper as some stocks slip into market correction, which strategic investors usually watch out for to take entry positions.
This, he said, had resulted in the recapture of territories hitherto held by the insurgents, adding that the efforts of the troops leading to unprecedented successes was evident in the increased number of neutralised insurgents and those that voluntarily surrendered alongside their families.
According to the Punch newspaper, the 40-year-old singer was remanded for 48 hours to allow the police conclude their investigation.
They demanded the zoning of the speaker to the region.
Islamist group, Boko Haram, has killed at least eleven civilians during an attack at Buni Gari in Gujba Local Government Area of Yobe State.
However, the Head of Public Affairs and Protocol for the examination agency, Fabian Benjamin, neither confirmed nor denied the information.
d. Mrs. Victoria Ibanga, Publisher, The Next Edition
Labour Party candidate Mr Obi won all five states in the South-east.
Buhari begs Nigerians for forgiveness
“Despite extremely difficult testing times, caused by the full-scale armed aggression of Russia against our state, Ukraine is determined to further strengthen cooperation with Nigeria at the bilateral level and within the framework of international organisations.
But it is elementary law that matters flowing from company law should be entertained and decided by the Federal High Court.
A week later, a Federal High Court in Lagos gave an interim order forbidding Mr Brown from management activities in Seplat Energy, granting the prayer of petitioners including Moses Igbrude, Ajani Abidoye, Sarat Kudaisi, Robert Ibekwe and Kenneth Nnabike.
Mr Akpabio is the senator-elect for Akwa Ibom North-west.
The forum will bring together leading voices from across Africa and beyond to discuss germane issues around the progress of the African continent.
NAN also reports that other members of the panel are Stephen Adah, Misitura Bolaji-Yusuf, Boloukuoromo Ugo and Abbah Mohammed.
In the course of the campaign, Governor Nyesom Wike, the leader of the G5 governors and the president-elect, Bola Tinubu appeared to have formed an informal alliance for the presidential election.
Roman Catholics are used to saying “Yes, Father”.
Four attempts at a ceasefire failed last week, however, the U.S. was able to broker a partial ceasefire that enabled more countries to evacuate and the Sudanese to run to safety.
A lot of our people were going to Uyo and Eket to get money.
Shortly after the February presidential poll, where Mr Obi came third in the race, the suspended national chairman of the Labour Party, Julius Abure, ran into troubled waters with other party stalwarts who sued him.
Premium Times says it expects the Ombudsman Board to help strengthen its journalism and those of other media platforms in Nigeria.
In a resolution on 20 April, the European Parliament said Nigeria’s blasphemy laws “are in violation of its international human rights commitments, the African Charter and the Nigerian Constitution.”
The Asaba meeting was also attended by the party’s National Assembly members-elect, officials of INEC, those of the NLC and the Trade Union Congress (TUC), the statement read.
The second category, JAMB said, are candidates who were scheduled to sit the 2023 UTME at the Beautiful Beginning CBT Centre, Apo, Abuja, but missed the examination.
He also made a personal cash donation to sponsor five students for further training in arts and craft at a training school in Lagos, as requested by the students.
Wole Soyinka is being trolled by Peter Obi’s supporters over the Nobel laureate's criticism of their conduct.
Let us remind ourselves of the following: in any adjudication, society finds it unacceptable that a party to the dispute resort to influencing tactics by extra-judicial means – such as bribery.
“On a year-on-year basis, revenue generated rose by 5.56 per cent from N191.95 billion in Q3 2021.
As usual, none of the 7 Bills that seek to properly restore the powers of the National Assembly was assented to.
Many police facilities in the state have been attacked and razed by gunmen.
In 2015, the APC noted that the South-east did not have a ranking member from the party in the Senate.
Some 400 candidates contested the governorship seats across 28 states of the federation.
Mr Ibrahim noted that after hearing about the issue, the victim was immediately relocated to a safe place from her father’s house to protect her from further abuse.
Is there fairness in that?
The Committee of the Whole is responsible for considering all reports submitted by all committees except money bills.
The communique, made available to reporters in Enugu on Thursday, was signed by the Chairman of the Council in Nigeria, Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu, Secretary-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Okey Emuchay, and its national spokesperson, Chiedozie Ogbonnia.
Both items were fixed and returned to me at no more than 15k total”.
Binani gives acceptance speech after being illegally declared winner of Adamawa guber election.
“That the NSA at the meeting which I attended informed the banks’ representatives that some of the beneficiaries of the Amnesty Scheme have been receiving double payments from the Federal Government of Nigeria by opening multiple accounts in several banks and that the 3rd respondent has also been paying funds to unknown individuals.
PREMIUM TIMES reported how gunmen, on 21 April, killed the officers at a restaurant in the state and also killed a couple.
The strength of the third force’s performance is also mirrored in the close win margin among the first three front runners.
Among the earliest congratulations that greeted Mr Olupona came from the newly-elected President of Harvard University, Claudine Gay, who said:
Mr Wadada said the least position the zone would go for was the position of the deputy senate president.
Mr Maikyau in company with the chairpersons and other officials of NBA branches in Rivers State, on Monday, met with Mr Wali’s distraught family members.
May and Baker features on the pick for trading significantly below its real value, brightening its chances of good price appreciation in future.
The National Assembly has resent a bill for the Nigeria Peace Corps to become an agency of the federal government to President Muhammadu Buhari, who has earlier in his first term declined assent to the same bill.
It’s both a loss and victory rolled into one.
The Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, established in 1910, is one of the oldest and most respected think tanks in the world.
After obtaining the judge’s permission to take over the suit, Mr Kaswe prayed for the withdrawal of the criminal charge against the defendants.
Most times, if you commence an action against the government for enforcement of fundamental rights, they usually think you are a busybody.
Mr Umoru stated also that the committee is made up of secretaries in the National Assembly Service and membership from the National Assembly Service Commission and those of NILDS.
They are not run for the purpose of making a profit.
Mr Ododo emerged the Kogi APC governorship candidate through a direct primary election on 14 April and was ratified through a special Congress of the party on 15 April.
President Muhammadu Buhari has saluted a former Head of State, Yakubu Gowon, for the wisdom of setting up the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), in 1973.
“After the evacuation, the government will assess the situation and come out with the next line of action.
Be courageous to discuss them openly between yourselves.
Enugu Gov-elect, Mbah, inaugurates transition committee members
It further argued that Nigeria’s constitution confers the status of a state on the FCT (Abuja) “and ought to be recognised as one of the states of the federation.”
“We have also reinvigorated the private sector in the industry.
“You cannot lift an embargo when you have less than a month as governor.
It can be demoralising to citizens who have hedged their bet on democracy and the sanctity of the ballot.”
He lamented that the outcome of the trial was depressing, owing to the overwhelming evidence by a former employee of Hillcrest “who boldly testified against the company before the court.
“The biggest asset I bring to the table is wisdom and experience garnered over the years in the management of human and material resources.
Mr Nwawuba also alleged that the Ministry of Transportation and NIMASA have misappropriated the funds.
The coordinator of the centre, Mosto Onuoha, told reporters that JAMB registrar, Ishaq Oloyede, conceived the idea of organising separate UTME examinations for the visually-impaired candidates across the country in recognition of their peculiar situation.
The email, according to prosecutors, contained instructions that the money be sent via wire transfer to a bank account which was set up by Whiteberry.
The tactics are familiar: ridicule, incriminate, then intimidate.
PREMIUM TIMES is an independent Nigerian investigative newspaper reputed for exposing official corruption, human rights abuses, government inefficiency, and impunity in the country and the world.
“We believe that as a team it will make more sense to start looking behind to blame the past.
It will be recalled that under the old regime of CAMA 1990, associations were registered with the CAC and their constitutions were registered.
Alternatively, he sought an order directing them to immediately transfer the said monies into an account under the control of the FHC chief registrar or into an account to be operated by the chief registrar, the EFCC and him, pending the determination of the appeal.
“Many times, journalists call the special assistant on media to the president in the office of the AGF and minister of Justice to confirm the rumours of my death,” Mr Malami recalled in his memoir.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the former chairpersons of the forum were honoured, while plaques were presented to outgoing governors of the party.
The community released the names following the claim by the police that only nine people were abducted.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) had reported that the building collapsed at First Avenue, Banana Island, Ikoyi, Lagos.
As someone who learns from history and I have repackaged some of the experiences.
I had to put this out there to encourage others; I love to read memoirs across the board.”
Why was it possible to other people to upload the results of the other federal elections but not the presidential one?
Bello, ‘blesses’ Kogi APC governorship candidate
The court which had its inaugural sitting on Monday adjourned Mr Obi’s petition until Wednesday.
“To be clear, APC is not responsible for Mr Abure’s travails.
And let me tell you, Asiwaju is a leader, he is a unifier who believes in the strength and capacities of the various people who are contesting.
After all, so many Africa are watching and they are so inspired by what happened before this election – the obedient movement.
In a message to our reporter on Sunday evening, Mrs Adeyeye said although investigations into the products will commence in Nigeria from Tuesday, 2 May, the products remain banned from being imported into the country.
The president-elect had picked former Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Godswill Akpabio (South-south) and Barau Jibrin (North-west) for the senate president and deputy senate president respectively.
Passport: 80 officers on trial for extortion, eight others dismissed – NIS
It urged the governor to address its demands before May 31 or risk an industrial crisis in the state.
She obtained her bachelor’s degree in mass communication from the University of Maiduguri and her master’s and doctorate degrees from Bayero University, Kano.
Lagos, Nigeria’s most cosmopolitan city and the state with the highest number of eligible voters, continued its trend of low voter turnout.
“We have provided better working conditions and environment, invested in training and re-training, education and human capacity development for workers.
The minister further disclosed that the council approved N9 billion for the procurement, installation, and inauguration of voice and data recorders in nine airports across the country.
We are closing in on them, more will still be arrested.
We are less than five per cent, and if you need two-thirds of the votes, even if we vote 10 times over, it is not going to work.
“For areas where thunderstorms are expected, strong winds are likely to precede the rains, and as such, trees, electric poles, unsecured objects and weak buildings may be felled,“ it said.
Although Anambra was among the first 14 states that domesticated the anti-rape law, many states are yet to do so.
INEC also applied the “Margin of Lead Principle’’ in the two affected Federal Constituencies to declare the elections inconclusive.
The CDC, in a statement jointly signed by its National convener, Aliyu Abdullahi, and the Director of contact and mobilisations, Chukwuma Okoro on Sunday, also echoed the argument that the North-west gave the president-elect substantial votes.
“The Coalition is not speaking for the North, it is just speaking for itself.
Results were still being expected then from two remaining local government areas – Obio/Akpor, where the State Governor, Nyesom Wike, hails from, and Degema.
“The I-GP assured them of the commitment of the force under the current leadership to promote positive collaborations with the commission for effective implementation of the Police Reform agenda.
The highlight of the US-Africa Leaders Summit was the announcement of a $55 billion investment in Africa in the next three years.
The launch also featured a panel session on digital inclusion and media innovation in Nigeria.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Court of Appeal in Lagos had, on April 20, quashed charges of misappropriation of N4.6 billion and money laundering brought against Mrs Usman, alongside Mr Fani-Kayode, a former Chairman of the Association of Local Governments of Nigeria (ALGON), Yusuf Danjuma, and a company, Jointrust Dimensions Nigeria Ltd.
Mr Gowon urged Nigerians to allow the Supreme Court to adjudicate on the electoral disputes before it at the 15th Annual Lecture of PUNUKA Attorneys and Solicitors on Thursday.
Guinean Citizenship: Group asks court to order probe, prosecution of Tinubu
While announcing his withdrawal from the race, Mr Onoja thanked his leader, Governor Bello and all his supporters for their love and prayers.
On Saturday morning, Khartoum was bombed again, a reporter at the scene told dpa.
Ordinarily, the North-east should not be in the conversation because Mr Shettima, who is the vice president-elect, is from Borno State.
“I look forward to working under Dr Adesina’s leadership, with the dedicated and talented team of directors general, directors, deputy directors, country managers, the Bank’s operational complexes, the senior leadership team and our Board of Directors, to enhance the effectiveness, efficiency, and delivery of quality operations for all beneficiaries in our regional member countries,” she said.
Report reveals sharp gender disparity in top positions of Nigeria’s legal profession
Some JAMB officials were seen reading out the examination questions to the candidates, who in turn attempted answering the questions using their personal typewriters and other gadgets.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Mr Buhari had in March approved the appointment of the permanent secretaries.
The bureau disclosed this in its “Telecoms Data: Active Voice and Internet, Porting and Tariff Information Q4 2022 report published Friday.
He, therefore, ordered the counsel for the applicant, Victor Opatola, to put the NPC on notice for the commission to appear in court and show cause why the applicant’s motion should not be granted.
An insider source at the palace of the Alaafin told PREMIUM TIMES that the name of the successful candidate was sent to the state government on 4th October.
“We adhere strictly to the standard procedures set by the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) and the Standards Organization of Nigeria (SON) in all our manufacturing processes.
NCDC said in total for 2023, “25 states have recorded at least one confirmed case across 99 Local Government Areas”, of which 72 per cent of all confirmed cases were reported from Ondo, Edo and Bauchi states.
The Senate South-East Caucus is asking the APC to zone the Senate Presidency of the 10th Assembly to the region for fairness and justice.
Mr Obi came second with 1.4 million (33 per cent) while Atiku came third with a little above 1.1 million votes (24 per cent).
Mr Baba gave the order in a statement by the Force Public Relations Officer, Olumuyiwa Adejobi, on Friday in Abuja.
At its usual peremptory best, Nigeria is again in a swashbuckling with death, at the expense of her citizens.
Some love it, however, and this is what freedom is about.
This group signifies the continuation of our efforts to inspire and support the next generation of environmental journalists,” organisers said.
Mr Obi, who came third in the February presidential election, is challenging the victory of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and its candidate, Bola Tinubu.
He said the creation of army aviation was one of the aspects of the ongoing expansion process in the Nigerian army, saying the renewed vigour for authorisation of the aviation unit emanated from a strong desire to effectively tackle contemporary security challenges across the country.
Joined in the suit as Defendants are the National Broadcasting Commission (NBC) and Lai Mohammed, minister of Information and Culture.
“We have been receiving enquiries with regards to a so-called apology, purportedly issued by the British Government or any of its agencies, to our Principal Mr Peter Obi, in respect of a routine Immigration engagement with him, as he arrived London for a brief visit, last Friday, the 7th of April.
NAN reports that Mr Nnamdi was arrested in Anambra and transported to Abuja by officers attached to the police cybercrime unit.
Also reacting to the court’s decision, Teslim Igbalaye, Secretary to the State Government, applauded the judgment and thanked God for the victory.
Huge successes have been achieved with the enactment of the Petroleum Industry Act (PIA) 2021,” he said.
Chimamandi’s claims and assertions on the recently concluded Presidential elections in Nigeria is not only ludicrous, it is also illogical, baseless and depicts ignoble ranting of an uninformed mind about legal and judicial processes or procedures.
The UK further explained in the document that the WHO Global Code of Practice 10-year review suggests that “the listed countries should be prioritised for health personnel development and health system-related support, provided with safeguards that discourage active international recruitment of health personnel.”
“Giving clear directives to his associates and proteges to work against the interest of the APC in Gombe State by ensuring only Senator Goje is elected on the APC platform (Using the Goje Kawai slogan) while working towards the defeat of other APC candidates at all levels.
Tunde Akanni, a media and conflict expert, is an associate professor of journalism at the Lagos State University, Nigeria.
Political thugs and security personnel formed the biggest part of the perpetrators at 31% each.
Agora Policy is a nascent Nigerian think tank committed to generating evidence-based and practical solutions to Nigeria’s urgent challenges.
Mr Okoye added that the Supreme Court in its judgement of 14 October 2021 affirmed the decision of the Court of Appeal.
The announcement follows the positive reports of crescent moon sighting in various locations in Nigeria, the monarch said.
“The deputy governor asked me to reverse the decision, but I declined and that will be his first request that I am not granting in the eight years that he had been deputy governor.
• Rufai Hanga Kano Central
He said all the officials concerned must appear before the committee to give clarification.
“An integral part of the constitutional duty of the Court to hold proceedings in public is a discretion to allow public access to proceedings either physically or by electronic means.”
Mr Egwu said that engaging more teachers in the state public and secondary schools would go a long way in enhancing the quality of education.
The IPOB leader was subsequently re-arraigned before Binta Nyako of the Federal High Court in Abuja on a 15-count terrorism charge.
We consider this as a great distrust to our party, therefore he is not fit to be a member of the party in Misau LGA.
A suspected graves robber, Gbesemehan Solomon, has been arrested for allegedly exhuming a corpse and stealing the skull in Ipokia, Ogun State.
“The mob did not spare the man’s life, as he was beaten and stoned to death, while his vehicle was also set ablaze by the angry mob,” he said.
He declared that no senator on the platform of the APC in South-east and South-south ranks higher than him.
Details of a document seen by PREMIUM TIMES showed that the financing agreement is between Nigeria and the International Development Association (IDA), a part of the World Bank that helps the world’s poorest countries.
APC defeated PDP to take over Benue while PDP unseated APC in the Plateau battle.
“Parents, please support your children if they report cases of sextortion to you.
The president-elect told the governors and former governorship candidates of the party that “whether you return or not, this is our government.
Mr Danmadami said the operations were conducted in the creeks, towns, waterways, cities and high seas of Bayelsa, Delta, Cross River and Rivers states.
“But be rest assured that as much as we are ready to show you love and cooperation to ensure that you succeed, I as the chairman and members of the committee will not hesitate to activate all parts of the law needed to stop abuse and misuse of resources,” he said.
Africa and Summit Diplomacy: Global powers turn on the charm
FAAC Shares N714bn March revenue to FG, States, LGAs
The South-east geopolitical had the lowest statistic with only one case, accounting for 2.2 per cent of the infringements tracked and verified.
This action, she earlier stated, was one of the reasons why he removed her.
Another Twitter user, Ceekay, said: “I know trucks to an extent, this product is not a product that will cost anything close to 1b naira.”
In the clip which has been circulating on Twitter, Facebook and WhatsApp, one of the officers, armed with an AK-47 rifle, is seen slapping the motorist after beating him with a cane.
The Service Public Relations Officer (SPRO) Comptroller of Immigration, Tony Akuneme, disclosed this to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Sunday in Abuja.
Nigerian evacuees from Sudan will no longer return Friday
The court held that “the burden of proving the allegations of over-voting lies squarely with the respondents (Mr Oyetola and the APC).”
“How could these have affected the overall results of the elections?
“Let me reiterate that while we are appealing to the Unions to sheath the sword, the Management will seriously view any behaviour by any Union that is likely to lead to a breakdown of law and order at our airports,” the ministry said.
Mr Okoye gave the names of the three other arrested suspects as, Ikechukwu Ojoko, 53, Charles Chilaka, 44, and Anthony Iwu, 50 — all males and indigenes of Umuokiria Community in Ahaizu Mbaise Local Government Area of the state.
He added that the Nigerian Constitution makes provisions for sufficient safeguards for human rights.
FOCAC, impressive in its breadth and depth, saw significant vaccine and financing pledges in 2021.
“Chronic insecurity is preventing many people in the north-east from growing the food they need or earning an income.
According to him, BVAS cut out fraudulent votes, ghost voters and multiple votes.
“The NBA stands with and assures his family of our full support in this trying period, even as we join in praying for his safe return home,” Mr Maikyau said last week in a statement.
To achieve a balanced reportage, Mr Olufemi said he called the company’s hotline and a masculine voice confirmed the allegation when “confronted” with facts.
Things look to be proceeding according to plan so far for Mr Massaquoi and lawyers, with their witnesses testifying that he’s innocent of the charges against him.
Any house without a leader or mother is bound to fail.
The ruling party is yet to make a decision on the zoning of the principal offices for the 10th National Assembly.
Gunmen, in late October, abducted many students of the University of Nigeria, Nsukka, who were returning to the institution for their resumed academic activities.
Justice Ekwo adjourned the matter until 18 May 18 for a hearing.
The funds allegedly emanated from the office of the former NSA where Mr Ashinze served as special assistant to Mr Dasuki, the then NSA.
A former member of the House of Representatives, Ali Ahmad, has asked the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, to override President Muhammadu Buhari’s decision on some constitutional amendment bills.
The defendant, however, pleaded not guilty to the charges.
However, the Attorney-General in his book paints a different picture of the efforts.
• Sanni Wasiu Eshilokun – Lagos Central
The House made the call on Thursday following the adoption of a motion of urgent public importance moved by Leke Abejide (ADC, Kogi).
I can’t believe this!’
The CJ said though the court had 76 judges across all its divisions nationwide, efforts would be made to recruit more judges.
a. Mr. Toby Soniyi, Chairman
It will be up to you to decide how you use that gift which no amount of influence or power can buy,” he wrote.
The African Union Peace and Security Council (AU-PSC) during an emergency meeting on Sunday feared that the situation in Sudan has “reached a dangerous level and could escalate into a full-blown conflict, thereby undermining the progress made towards a peaceful transition to democracy and stability in Sudan.”
He reiterated that the APC in the state was one united family, noting that the party is very well positioned to win the next governorship election, landslide.
“ Later in the day, thunderstorms are anticipated over parts of the Federal Capital Territory, Nasarawa, Kogi, Niger and Plateau.
Called Jagaban, or “leader of the warriors,” by his supporters, the now 71-year-old ran in a presidential election for the first time this March.
INEC’s garment of legitimacy and credibility was now caught up in a barbed wire of conspiracy theories.
The handler, who also posted a photo of the school’s Director and the accused, claimed that the school management had been reluctant and allegedly attempted to sweep the matter under the carpet.
Besides, the incumbent Attorney-General of the Federation is male, and no female has ever occupied the position.
According to AlJazeera’s Farah al-Zaman Shawki, final results are expected to be announced by 1500 local time (12 GMT).
He said his consultation with leaders of the Labour Party, Rabiu Kwankwaso, Governor Bala Mohammed and others gives him confidence that he will win the election scheduled for 13 June.
By the way, I do agree with Seun Kuti; ‘Obidients’ is one of the most repulsive, off-putting concoctions I ever encountered in any political arena.
Another Defence witness has claimed before Finland’s Turku Court of Appeal in Monrovia that Gibril Massaquoi, a one-time commander with Sierra Leone’s Revolutionary United Front (RUF), did not fight in Liberia’s second civil war, as alleged by prosecutors.
“Nigeria is widely known to be a pretty corrupt country.” Nonetheless, he called Alimi “a respected lawyer in Nigeria.”
At the time, Binani was trailing the incumbent and candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Ahmadu Fintiri.
To demonstrate that the February 25 presidential election was discredited, Chimamanda writes that “There were reports of a shooting at a polling unit, and of political operatives stealing or destroying ballot boxes.
On 4 July 2020, Mr Tsammani delivered one of the judgements of the Court of Appeal in Abuja that affirmed the second term election of Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State.
“The Commissioner of Police, Ebonyi State Command, Faleye Olaleye is using this medium to warn the aggressors to lay down their arms or face the full wrath of the law,” she added.
— Charly Boy Area Fada 1 (@AreaFada1) April 8, 2023
According to Messrs Kumo and Chinda, the 283 members of the coalition are drawn from the APC, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Labour Party (LP), New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP), Social Democratic Party (SDP), All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), African Democratic Congress (ADC) and the Young Progressive Party (YPP).
He listed items recovered from the suspects to include, a Toyota Corolla car, a locally made cut-to-size single barrel gun and 11 rounds of live cartridges.
Mr Usman-Obodo, the Auditor-General for Local Government Areas in the state, was backed by the state governor, Yahaya Bello.
He has been presented with a certificate of return.
The Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Usman Baba, has approved the posting of the recently-promoted Deputy Inspector-General of Police, Olukayode Egbetokun, to man the Force Criminal Investigations Department (FCID), at Force Headquarters, Abuja.
In 1999, Nigeria had a virtual three party system with the PDP and All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP) splitting the North, the PDP dominant in the South-East and South-South and the Alliance for Democracy controlling the South-West.
He, however, urged the unions to extend the same hand of fellowship to the incoming administration of Sheriff Oborevwori, the governor-elect.
This month, the World Bank stated in its publication Africa Pulse the naira shed 10.2 per cent against the dollar in 2022.
Last November, he covered the Conference of the Parties (COP27) in Egypt.
At Reuters, the Agency’s recent investigation of alleged secret programmes of coerced abortion of women and girls freed from insurgents’ captivity were discussed.
“But we told you that we were coming on this date to investigate this matter.
Gobeze fled to Djibouti after that statement was published, his lawyer told CPJ.
Outside the First bank parameter fence, POS agents were seen displaying wads of cash.
I grew up with Muslims—wonderful people.
Others are Ruth Bitrus, number 41, Mary Dauda, number 46, Hauwa Joseph, number 18, Falmata Lawan, number 3, Asabe Ali, number 12, Jankai Yamal, number 20, Yana Pogu, number 19, Rejoice Sanki, number 70 and Hassana Adamu, number 35,” he said.
“Remarkably, 104 Bills of the 9th Senate have been assented to by President Muhammadu Buhari.
The party is yet to announce its decision on the zoning of the 10th National Assembly leadership.
“Currency in circulation declined by 58% in January 2023 to N1.39tn from N3.01tn in December 2022, while currency outside the banks declined by 72% in January 2023 to N789bn from N2.57tn in December 2022,” Mr Oni added.
The Honourable Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola SAN, set up a committee to investigate the allegations, and the committee found the allegations to be true.
In fact, it smacks of contempt of court, albeit ex facie curiae,” the letter reads in part.
Did the commissioner of police know about the court matter, did the IGP or AIG know about it?
UN Special Representative in Sudan, Volker Perthes, said the situation in Sudan is “very fluid so it’s very difficult to say where the balance is shifting to.”
“The Federating Units has a current debt stock of 46.25 trillion naira, with the state governments taking only 13.7 percent of that total, the total external debt stock of this amount is 18 trillion naira,” he said.
10:46am: Action Alliance’s petition called.
However, there was no formal role for either Charles’ younger son Prince Harry, after his high-profile falling out with his family, or his brother Prince Andrew, who was forced to quit royal duties because of his friendship with late U.S. financier Jeffrey Epstein, a convicted sex offender.
He said the Supreme Court in its judgement on 24 March resolved conclusively the APGA leadership dispute.
The NCDC noted in the report that the challenges with response to Lassa fever in the country include late presentation of cases leading to an increase in CFR, poor health-seeking behaviour due to the high cost of treatment and clinical management of the infection, poor environmental sanitation conditions, and poor awareness observed in high-burden communities.
Labour Party supporters mob factional leader Apapa in court
“Records at our disposal also showed that compensations were paid to the initial owners when the land was first acquired.
This year, about 1.6 million candidates are to sit the annual examination which enables admission seekers to gain admission into tertiary institutions of their choice including universities, polytechnics, colleges of education, and monotechnics.
“Yet another factor is the need to accommodate those institutions with stable academic calendars to resume as scheduled,” he added.
But his testimony contradicts the testimonies of Mr Massaquoi and other witnesses, who told both the district and appeal courts that the former RUF commander was taken into the safe house in 2003.
INEC Returning Officer, Dauda Aminu, declared the results in Hunkuyi on Sunday.
The suspect also insisted he was not responsible for the children’s death.
Yemi Oke, a top Nigerian lawyer and professor, has penned down an open letter to Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and US President Joe Biden on Nigerian elections, faulting popular Nigerian novelist Chimamanda Adichie’s stand on the February 25 presidential polls.
44 and 49 relate to the budget process.
At the source, locals form poaching cells to catch pangolins in their natural habitats.
“ Cloudy atmosphere is expected over the inland states and coastal cities of the South with prospects of morning thunderstorms over parts of Ogun and Lagos States.
With Mr Tinubu from the South-west and his running mate, Kashim Shettima from North-east—the presiding offices were expected to be zoned to the remaining four geopolitical zones.
He also called on Nigerians to use the occasion to pray for an end to the security challenges in some parts of the country, adding that security was everybody’s business.
The owner of the lab, Christopher Agodi, was arrested and 102 cartons containing 2,448 bottles of the substance were recovered.
“The Senate Presidency is not for free; you have to work for it.
Peter Obi speaks on treason allegation
The National Salaries, Incomes and Wages Commission is already carrying out assessments and will soon conclude,” the ministry said.
“The drugs were produced by U.S-based drug developer, Viatris Inc.
Lassa Fever: All you need to know about rampaging disease
“No other country could put on such a dazzling display – the processions, the pageantry, the ceremonies, and street parties,” Prime Minister Rishi Sunak said.
The corollary is that the number of people in poverty will drop to 2.1 per cent by 2050 from 83 million in 2020,’’ the finance minister said.
The police in Anambra State, South-east Nigeria, said they killed two gunmen in the state on Monday.
At the last count by the country’s Higher Education Statistics Agency, HESA, only 160 of more than 22 thousand professors are Black.
He is from Imo State.
He gave their names as, Damian Ibe, 50, Simon Iwuala, 31, Nwabueze Ahiwe, 47, and Paul Obali, 70 – all males and indigenes of the state.
As the Sudan crisis broke out, it sparked off a revelation that Nigeria has at least 10,000 students and more than five million Sudanese of Nigerian origin who are gilded in Sudan.
“The embattled chairman and his deputy were part of the 11 remaining members and since they can’t adjudicate in their own case, only nine members were left to take decisions.
“I want everyone to feel that Benue is a home for everyone.
The perpetrators must be brought to book and sanity restored to our way of life,” he stated.
Speaking on behalf of the group, Salihu Ibrahim said the National Chairman of the party, Abdullahi Adamu, cannot afford to allow the North-central to be marginalised.
Also, Sandy Onor, Cross Rivers PDP governorship candidate, and his running mate, Ambrose Emana, had sued the party and its executives over allegations bordering on planned suspension.
Amid such fierce competition, what agendas are the world’s top and middle powers driving?
Mr Obi trailed Mr Tinubu in the North-central while Atiku came second in the South-west and North-west.
Olujonwo Obasanjo, who is a chieftain of the APC, also supports the candidature of Abbas Tajudeen as the next Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Earlier, the Commandant of the MLAILPKC, Emmanuel Undiandeye, a major general, said the training was intense, comprehensive, and was conducted using the Standard United Nations Core Pre-Deployment Training Materials.
The Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, also disclosed that the 137km Kano to Zaria and 73 km Zaria to Kaduna expressways, as well as the second Niger bridge projects would be handed over to the federal government on May 15 for inauguration.
Another member of the Nigerian Environmental Society, Okechukwu Ogbonnaya, who chaired the event, called for urgent action to protect the earth from collapsing.
“However, the idea is not to replace RTS, S but to be complementary – Gavi has already approved funding for a malaria vaccine programme and is ready to support the roll-out of R21 alongside RTS, S,” it added
The National Assembly has passed the “Bill for an Act to Abolish and Prohibit Dichotomy and Discrimination between First Degree and Higher National Diploma in the Same Profession/Field for the Purpose of Employment; and for Related Matters,” and has presented it to Mr Buhari for assent before it can become a law.
Born to a family of 10 children, Mr Enahoro started media career as an Assistant Publicity Officer, at what is now called Federal Ministry of Information in 1954.
He held that counsel for the defendants did not consider Section 108(2) of ACJA 2015 in making their application.
Mr Ngige, in a statement signed by Olajide Oshundun, director, Press and Public Relations in the ministry, said the planned strike was illegal.
$800m loan obtained to ease effects of COVID, cash crunch, subsidy removal – Official
The situation is similar at Rumfar Kyahel polling unit 008, Kofar Atiku, ‘Yargoba and Kanwuri all in Sokoto North Local Government Area.
‘E’, in this case, was the victim.
We all rely on salaries even businesses will not pick up when civil servants are not paid.
NPF REJUVENATES DIGITALIZED CENTRAL MOTOR REGISTRY (CMR) INFORMATION SERVICE
Sadly, these virtue vigilantes succeed with the ignorant and susceptible – especially among the younger, confused generation.
Properties were also damaged or lost in the incident in the Makun area of the local government.
“What happened was that he was kidnapped around 11 p.m. last Saturday.
As Mr Wigwe begins his tenure, Council members, including the BUA Chairman, have pledged their support and look forward to continued collaboration in fostering sustainable and inclusive economic growth for both France and Nigeria.
It’s too much,” she said.
Prayers were said for the successful handover to the incoming administration of the president-elect, Bola Tinubu and his deputy, Kashim Shettima.
Court overturns Ifeanyi Ararume’s removal as NNPCL chair, awards N5bn damages
“I have considered the application to adjourn this matter made again after the motion has been moved, and I agree with the Plaintiffs’ counsel that the defendants have not shown bona fide.
“The event will also have in attendance members of the National and Executive Council, members of the Diplomatic Corps and Governors of the States benefitting Units.
Senate on Tuesday at plenary constituted an ad hoc committee to investigate alleged unauthorised spending by the Niger- Delta Development Commission (NDDC) for 2021 and 2022 budget estimates.
I was even begging the bishop to help me to ask his people to vote, which is what I was doing for six months.”
“This is the time to eschew religious, tribal, nepotic tendencies and ethnic sentiments in the choice of the president of the senate which is first among equals,” he added.
Oyo State, where incumbent governor Seyi Makinde sought re-election had the highest turnout in Southern Nigeria.
A copy of the directive seen by PREMIUM TIMES showed the document was received by the Litigation and Prosecution department, INEC headquarters, Abuja, on 5 April by 3:54 p.m.
“That in furtherance of our resolve to play a leading role in the formation of the leadership of the 10th Assembly and as a result of our diligent interactions with all aspirants for the position of Speaker and Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, we hereby resolve to support the duo of the Rt.
An expert said the new plan is a reflection of government's misplaced priority.
The Council enjoined Muslims all over the country to look out for the announcement to be made by the Sultan on the night of Thursday 20th of April.
This year’s summit, themed “Harnessing Alternative Feed resources for Sustainable Animal Feed ”, has key stakeholders from the private and public sectors engage feed millers (toll, commercial and on-farm) and academia in an effort to chart the way forward for the development of Nigeria’s feed sector.
In his remarks, CJID’s Executive Director, Tobi Oluwatola, said it is important to ask ourselves the question of what we need to do to improve the agricultural business environment.
He also explained how Mr Tinubu got involved in the 2015 presidential election in Guinea and the role he played during that election.
What does that have to do with the results of the election?
In a scathing response to media coverage of the justice ministry, Mr Malami decried how journalists feasted on promoting negative stories about his tenure
Either of these decisions will bring more hardship and pain to Nigerians, particularly workers.
“In the skeleton argument for the Appellant, Mr Macpherson Mickel had suggested that the use of a key meant that the keys must have been attached the luggage,” the judge said.
But in battalions!”
The event is holding against the backdrop of Nigeria’s historic economic underperformance and current economic challenges.
Paul Griffith, the world’s first professor of management to lead a team to launch a rocket, will share insights into how world leaders can better manage change in the present uncertain times at the forthcoming capacity development programme of TEXEM UK.
Nobody can stop us from approaching the election tribunal, says the APC candidate.
Atiku and the PDP in an application dated 5 May specifically prayed the court for an order directing the court’s registry and the parties on modalities for admission of media practitioners and their equipment into the courtroom.
Mr Adewinmbi said the woman was taken to the Amotekun where she revealed her name as Margret Jonah.
Georgia lost control of its breakaway regions of Abkhazia and South Ossetia in the war against Russia.
Though we are tempted with the drudgery of fatigue and despondency, unlike the apostles in the garden of Gethsemane, we should be ready to wait in patience for one hour or more (Mt.
It said financial sector stress could amplify and contagion could take hold, weakening the real economy through a sharp deterioration in financing conditions and compelling central banks to reconsider their policy paths.
Rivers PDP storms INEC office with herbalist, fetish items
After our election in the 9th Assembly, the president-elect still called me and said, ‘Betara I want you to hold the House for Femi and I said Daddy.
I wanted to benefit from it and the division said I should meet my state so that if they give me, that’s okay.
Took my Apple ipad and laptop to a repair shop in the UK and these guys gave me a very high repair bill.
He said the majority of the cases, according to the register of the Haemophilia Federation of Nigeria, are either in Kaduna or Lagos State “because they diagnose more people.”
I do not believe in conspiracy theory but there seems to be an unwritten understanding among successive members of the executive branch to ensure the profile of the legislative branch in Nigeria does not blossom and mature.
The Department of Theatre and Film Studies, University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN), will hold an International Conference on resilience against slavery.
They have filed petitions at the election tribunal with each of them seeking to be declared the winner of the election.
“This is very unfortunate.
According to the statement, the minister said that NEC deliberated on the issue extensively and came to the conclusion that the subsidy must be removed as it is not sustainable, but that there is a need for further consultations, especially the need to involve members of the incoming administration and representatives of the State governments.
“The President-elect should be consolidating on the high votes he recorded in our zone so as to override attempts that both PDP and NNPP will make to muzzle APC.
Represented by the State Immunisation Officer, FCT, Nicholas Okoli, he said all stakeholders in the sector should collaborate and put in place strategies to reach eligible persons with the vaccines.
The supplementary governorship election in Adamawa was embroiled in controversy when the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), Hudu Ari, illegally and prematurely declared Aishatu Dahiru of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as the winner of the election when collation of results had yet to be concluded.
Another indigene of the community, Okoye Agbata, stressed that Mr Anikweze was ditched because he does not belong to the family which produces kings in the community.
She also urged the government to transform the universities to discourage brain drain.
However, the judge, Inyang Ekwo, dismissed CAN’s suit on technical grounds.
The presidency, on 5 January, made a fresh announcement of the appointment to the NNPC Limited’s board which revealed that Mr Ararume’s name had been replaced.
The kidnapped female students of Government Secondary School (GSS) Awon in Kachia Local government Area of Kaduna State have escaped from their abductors.
A fathomless pit was exposed, at the bottom of which one glimpsed a throng of the damned, writhing in competitive lust for the largest of the gangrenous ladles in a diabolical broth.
“One of these conditions concerns public health.
“Having clearly undermined democracy in Nigeria, the PDP calls on the International Community to accordingly impose sanctions including Visa ban and travel restrictions on President Buhari and his family immediately after he vacates office on May 29, 2023,” the party demands.
He asked the court to strike out the EFCC’s prayer for their remand, saying the administrative bail granted the defendants was still active.
In the natural gas sector, Mr Buhari announced that he pushed for the diversification of Nigeria’s economy and drove industrialisation through domestic gas utilisation, officially declaring natural gas as Nigeria’s transition fuel.
Other guests expected at the book presentation include Bola Tinubu, the president-elect, and Kashim Shettima, the vice president-elect.
He regretted the action of some youth in the area who burnt down the official vehicle of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC).
Aregbesola says the FG spends N83,333 per inmate every month
As it’s been in the past few days, another defence witness told the Court on Thursday that Gibril Massaquoi did come to Liberia for peace talks to end the war in his native country.
The panel says a whistleblower reported to NFIU about $200m paid to two companies for consultancy services approved by the AGF and President Muhammadu Buhari.
However, these days, Nollywood filmmakers boldly explore sex scenes and plots.
Mr Malami addresses a number of controverisal issues that came up during his tenure as AGF.
Respondents in the petition marked: CA/PEPC/05/2023, are the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Tinubu and the APC as 1st, 2nd and 3rd respectively.
The APC urged the tribunal to dismiss the petition with substantial cost as the same was devoid of any merit and founded on frivolity.
I join the rest of the world and all compatriots to celebrate Nigerian workers on this year’s International Workers’ Day.
PREMIUM TIMES reported that the ruling party has been unable to form a majority in the House, and the combined strength of the opposition parties is higher than the APC.
2023: PDP raises alarm over alleged attempt to influence tribunal judgement
The court also sentenced Mr Ekweremadu’s wife, Beatrice, to four years and six months in prison while a doctor who colluded with them, Obinna Obeta, was sentenced to 10 years in prison.
“The government needs to call us to the negotiation table.
When he crossed over the road beside Unity Restaurant, Anas told the tea seller his boss’s message and was turning back when the policeman, who was sitting on one of the benches waiting for his order, asked him to stop talking to the tea seller,” Mr Ahmed said.
Other documents it asked for include: pension payroll for the month of February 2020 for the state pensioners and that of the local governments and any other vital information that may be of use to the incoming administration.
I also want to use this opportunity to appeal to President Buhari to also not approve foreign postings or grant any foreign travels for any officer at any level in the outgoing government who may be critical or strategic to the smooth take-off of the incoming government.
The normal election is done and rigged as usual, and the riggers become governor and senator.
It was the loss of the loan facility from the Aras Group that triggered the defamation suit against the convicts.
Oba Adeyemi’s 51 years on the throne made him the longest reigning Alaafin before he died on 22nd April 2022 at the age of 83 years.
Locals had raised an alarm that the dead could no longer “rest in peace” as their skulls were being stolen by suspected ritualists
Mr Osinbajo used the story to address the ethnic profiling that characterised the 2023 general elections, where there were reported cases of harassment and intimidation of voters based on their tribes and ethnicity.
“That is the first tranche of palliatives that will enable us give cash transfers to the most vulnerable in our society that have now been registered in a national social register.
She expressed appreciation to governments, development partners, civil society, academia, the private sector, and communities for their commitment and contribution to achieving our collective effort of health for all.
PREMIUM TIMES reported that Mr Tinubu “settled” for Godswill Apabio (South-south) and Barau Jibrin (North-west) for the senate president and deputy respectively.
Mr Soroh said: “More common diseases, including respiratory tract infections, sexually transmitted infections, and urinary tract infections, are untreatable; lifesaving medical procedures are becoming much riskier, and our food systems are increasingly precarious.
“I disagree with the assertion that the assembly is a rubber stamp assembly, I have chosen as one of the mandates that I will work with the executive in the interest of Nigeria,” he said.
“Why is it that the National Assembly Speaker is something that elected president and the party under the watch of Abdullahi Adamu, who is even from the North-central will not wholeheartedly say the North-central should take.
The experts spoke at the second edition of the National Animal Feed Summit organised by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (FMARD) and other relevant partners including the Centre for Journalism Innovation and Development (CJID), its sister organisation, PREMIUM TIMES, and Sahel Consulting Agriculture and Nutrition Limited in Abuja.
Spyro also got the already teeming crowd shouting the song’s lyrics from their lungs.
On 26 May 2021, the HMRC wrote to the appellant, Mr Fagbewesa, again stating that he may be exposed to a penalty in the sum of £28,248.
The media roundtable was organised by Pfizer, a U.S. pharmaceutical company, as part of efforts to make sure patients living with haemophilia are seen, heard, and never forgotten as it continues to work tirelessly to find breakthrough solutions and therapeutic options to change lives.
So, I believe the National Orientation Agency (NOA) should really work in collaboration with this House to make sure that these ethics and values go down to the core communities and constituencies.
The order follows a ruling by the court in 2021, when the judges found that Russia had been responsible for “inhumane’’ acts against Georgian citizens after the end of the fighting, which lasted from 9 August 2008 until 12 August 2008.
Binani’s suit seeking to uphold ‘declaration’ as governor-elect set for hearing
The Governor-elect said the Transition Committee would help articulate and fine-tune the incoming administration’s implementable and impactful development plan” when it assumed office in May.
He asked the court to determine whether the court had powers to grant mandatory injunctive reliefs against the defendants.
Mr Oyeyemi added that the suspect had confessed to being part of the syndicate that killed the victim and that he was the person who severed the two legs of the deceased, which he claimed he used for a ritual purpose.
Mr Shettima did not explain why other APC ranking senators who are also Christians were not considered despite seeking the position of senate president.
I don’t know any serious country in the world that does not have an organic budget law,” Mr Akabueze said.
The INEC Returning Officer, Benjamin Olley of the University of Ibadan, announced Mr Agboworin as the winner at the ancient Mapo Hall Collation Centre in Ibadan.
A police source at the command told PREMIUM TIMES that the singer was accompanied by Femi Falana, a senior lawyer.
Sologic Integrated Services Limited was said to have received N120 million on 23 April 2014.
“In furtherance of his campaign, Hon.
A few days after the audio was published, on Tuesday, information minister Lai Mohammed accused Mr Obi of inciting Nigerians against one another.
He presided over the most turbulent period in modern Nigerian history, helping our nation navigate through global shocks such as volatile oil prices, the COVID-19 pandemic, the war in Ukraine and the global cost of living crisis.
Although there is no known cure for this disease, treatment can help manage the condition.
Likewise, the Global Media Monitoring Project (GMMP) 2020 revealed that the news media lag in offering inclusive spaces for women, vulnerable and historically marginalised groups.
Then in the North-east, former vice president Atiku got 1.7 million votes (56 per cent).
The minister said: ”Thereby giving teeth to the Human Rights Commission in terms of compliance with the recommendation,” he added.
Noble Laureate Wole Soyinka has referred to the alleged refusal of the supporters of the presidential candidate of the Labour Party, Peter Obi, to entertain corrective criticism as their “badge of honour” and “certificate of commitment”
Also, the statistical office said in Q4 2022, the total number of active internet subscribers stood at 154,847,901 from 141,971,560 reported in Q4 2021, showing an increase of 9.07 per cent.
William Ruto, President of Kenya: “It is our responsibility.
A reading above 50 indicates growth but the one below that threshold points to contraction.
As usual, the concert packed a lot of beautiful and exciting moments which got fans screaming at the top of their lungs.
In addition, the report said both the Nigeria Upstream Petroleum Regulatory Commission (NUPRC) and Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) Limited should be given clear oil production and exporting targets, and be held accountable when these are not met.
“Upon seeing the bruises, the paediatrician transferred us to a gynaecologist to run a test, who confirmed the injury and physical trauma as a result of an attempted forced penetration,” the mother said.
“He started his teaching career as a Lecturer at College of Agriculture, Zuru in 1998.
According to him, development organisations must work together to decimate malaria, which had brought untold human suffering on people, with ripple effects on global productivity.
In the last two years, President Buhari and Governor Abubakar Bello of Niger State were the two members of the Federal and State Executives that were so summoned.
Another defence witness told the Court on Thursday that Gibril Massaquoi did come to Liberia for peace talks to end the war in his native country.
The leaked file appears to have substantiated the position of the critics.
Gunmen, on Friday, killed Five police officers and a couple in the state.
She remarked that the products flagged by both Taiwan and Malaysian health authorities for having traces of ethylene oxide are not registered in Nigeria.
He, Atiku, and three other presidential candidates with their respective parties are challenging the election in court.
The Census Manager lauded the Muhammadu Buhari-led administration for its support, saying the commission had successfully trained about 60,000 facilitators across the country.
“The court cannot be satisfied on the merit of the case except the prosecution closed their case and the defendants testified in their defence and called their witnesses,” he said
While the northwestern state had a 41 per cent turnout, Plateau State recorded a 40 per cent turnout.
“Nyesom, I say thank you for your contribution to my victory.
In deciding the suit on 18 April, the judge, James Omotosho, said Mr Ekpenyong had the right to have filed the action.
The mob removed his cap and attempted to tear his grey-coloured flowing gown (agbada).
“We heard that Dan-Karami came to Usman Modi-Modi some days ago, and Modi-Modi gave him weapons.
Speculations on who is to be appointed in the coming new government have intensified, especially on social media platforms.
Mr Olupona, a professor of African Traditional Religion, was educated at the University of Nigeria, Nsukka, and the Boston University in the United States where he completed his master’s and doctorate degrees.
They were said to have moved into Tsaskiya, Runka, Gora, Labo and other communities in the two local government areas.
The Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has confirmed the death of two persons and the rescue of four individuals at a collapsed wall in Ademola Adetokunbo Crescent, Wuse II, Abuja.
“We have not been served as a party, we are studying the process and I can assure you that we are above it.”
We are not even against the president-elect, because as far as we are concerned, we have not heard anything from him.
But despite the court order and the involvement of the police, the National President of the school’s alumni association, Seyi Gambo, told PREMIUM TIMES that the state has “refused to stop working on the land belonging to the FGC.”
The commissioner also commended everyone who raised alarm and brought her attention to the incident just as she praised the police in the state for their consistent partnership with her ministry in ensuring such a situation was handled “professionally and in record time.”
Meanwhile, a pregnant woman, Rabetu Abdulrasak, 24, and a cripple, Shehu Adams, have been arrested by NDLEA operatives in Agbede, Etsako West LGA, Edo State while over 14 kilograms of assorted illicit drugs including cannabis, methamphetamine, tramadol and swinol were recovered from them on Saturday 15 April.
“While the easier access to cash caused business activities to expand across key sectors (Agriculture, manufacturing, services and wholesales and retails sectors), firms however maintained caution in increasing staff head count,” Mr Oni further stated.
Otherwise, how do we explain the insensitivity to diversity manifesting in the composition of the recently inaugurated National Media Commission, with the inclusion of the spokesperson of only one of the presidential candidates, Professor Stella Okunna?
“When he (Mr Wada) grabbed his head with his hands because blood was gushing out, the policeman started firing shots.
Kidnappers release ex-NBA president Okey Wali after 14 days in captivity
The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has detained a former Minister of Power, Sale Mamman, over an alleged diversion of N22 billion, PREMIUM TIMES can report.
“Remarkably, the five sacks of pangolin scales weighing 413.1kg and the 11,064kg of Indian hemp are the highest, if not arguably the first seizure of such endangered species and hard drugs in the history of the zone.
Mr Malami stated this on Thursday when he finally appeared before the House of Representatives ad hoc committee investigating the sales of the crude oil.
She charged the police chief to sustain the momentum towards making the state a safe place to live in and do business
Governors elected on the platform of Nigeria’s ruling APC had claimed in a memo to the President-elect, Bola Tinubu, that two aspirants to the positions were offering bribe to their colleagues.
The tickets delivered victory for the anointed candidates.
The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has yet to zone the position.
“The IGP also approved appointment of Benjamin N. Okolo as AIG Zone 16 Yenagoa; Oyediran Oyeyemi, AIG DTD FHQ Abuja; Babaji Sunday, AIG FCID Annex Kaduna; Arungwa Udo, AIG Zone 5 Benin and Yusuf Usman, as AIG Force Transport Officer.
Opposition reps divided as faction backs Tinubu’s choice for House Speaker
“The registration number of the Siena vehicle is AFM 810 NK, while the truck has no number.
The judgement is a victory for Nigeria’s democracy.
Suspected land grabbers kill police officer, injure three others in Lagos
Before the result was ready the family opted to bring the patient to a private hospital in Lagos from where she was referred to Mainland Hospital (Lagos Infectious Disease Hospital), located in Yaba on the night of Wednesday 5th of April following the release of a positive Lassa fever result done at the Lassa unit in Ondo.”
“Having a uniform retirement age for the Judiciary will remove the backlog of cases and ensure speedy dispensation of justice,” he said.
The judge, however, held that since Mr Sheriff had failed to go by the order of the court, the appropriate thing to do was to dismiss the matter.
But last Friday, the captors called the family members and demanded N50 million ransom after which we have not heard from them again,” Mr Ginikanwa said.
“Consequently, the National Communications Commission allocated 20 megahertz bandwidth to the DHQ for the establishment of a secure nationwide defence communication network in 2013.
The non-governmental organisation explains that the creation of the fund was a reaction to the eroding advertising-based business model, something that was exacerbated by the Covid-19 pandemic which saw shrinking revenues.
“We also affirm our unfettered support for the position of the President of the 10th Senate who also doubles as the Chairman of the National Assembly to be conferred on His Excellency, Distinguished Senator Godswill Obot Akpabio, CON.
The NDLEA Commandant in Kaduna State, Ibrahim Braji, stated this in an exclusive interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Sunday in Kaduna.
This is contained in a statement in Abuja on Tuesday by Vincent Adekoye, the press officer of NAPTIP.
IPI NIGERIA INAUGURATES THREE COMMITTEES; EGBEMODE, SANI, SONIYI ARE CHAIRS
“It is my expectation that all present here today will brainstorm to give your best attention to articulate a roadmap for National alternative feed resources that will significantly reduce the cost of production and the effects of incessant price volatility in the Nigerian animal feed industry,” the minister added.
Apart from the fighting between the rival forces, there are currently reports of attacks, home invasions and looting.
“Bayelsa recorded the least with 1,101,002, followed by Ebonyi and Ekiti with 1,264,825 and 1,474,970 respectively,” it said.
Muktar Betara Aliyu (OON).
We will try as much as possible to have a rancour-free parliament,” he said.
Five were rejected last year.
Sudan: Gbajabiamila blames “interagency disagreement” for challenges in evacuating Nigerians, summons officials
He said section 108(2b) talked about the acquittal of defendants if application for withdrawal was made after the defendants had been directed to enter their defence while Section 108(3) talked about acquittal of defendants if the court was satisfied.
The ministry, in the letter signed by its Permanent Secretary, Andrew Adejo, requested the presence of policemen in the college “especially in areas where the encroachment is taking place to protect the children and property of the school.”
The Joint Admission and Matriculation Board (JAMB) has organised the Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) for visually-impaired candidates in Enugu State, Nigeria’s south-east.
This facility is being obtained as part of the National Social Safety Nets Program (NASSP) to scale up the government’s response to poor and vulnerable Nigerians dealing with different categories of economic shocks since 2021
External reserves have maintained a healthy growth throughout these eight years.
UPDATED: INEC declares PDP’s Fintiri winner of Adamawa governorship election
The Lagos State government says its officials are assessing the situation at an unapproved seven-floor building under construction which collapsed in Banana Island Wednesday evening.
He had argued in court filings that a telecast of the hearing would boost Nigerians’ confidence in the court as it would enhance transparency.
The National Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Debo Ologunagba, while reacting to the president’s comment at a press conference on Friday, insisted that the candidate of the PDP, Atiku Abubakar, did not lose the presidential election as declared by the Chairman of Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Mahmood Yakubu.
Another approval was given for the variation in the cost for the supply of airport fire crash tenders in the Ministry of Aviation, which was approved for approximately N65 million naira.
Expectedly, all previous alteration exercises were commendably devoted to good governance, devolution of powers, local government autonomy, minority rights and interests, judicial reforms, electoral reforms, public revenue, women inclusion in governance and other issues of national interest.
In a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Debo Ologunagba, on Tuesday in Abuja, the party described the court verdict as the ultimate triumph of the will of the people of Osun.
“I will make sure that during my tenure (as Ohanaeze president-general), an additional state is created for the South-east,” Mr Iwuanyanwu assured.
Because of the crisis and several litigations, the APC in Akwa Ibom could not present a governorship candidate days to the 2023 election.
“My husband changes women anyhow and he doesn’t respect me.
“We are looking forward to getting justice in all our court cases across the country.
The Resident Electoral Commissioner in Akwa Ibom, Cyril Omorogbe, told journalists in Uyo that the rerun election in the area was abysmal.
No petition was submitted.
I am not a combatant legislator.
Mr Tinubu’s lawyer, Wole Olanipenkun, as Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), did not object to APP’s request to withdraw the petition.
She noted that the WHD is a reminder that innovative ideas and new ways of reimagining PHC with highly resourced HRH are sine qua non to ‘building back better.’
In a severe downside scenario, the report said automatic stabilizers should be allowed to operate fully and temporary support measures be utilized as needed, fiscal space permitting.
“As we celebrate Workers Day, let us remember the millions of Nigerian workers who have dedicated their lives to building and sustaining our great nation.
SDN said it found it necessary to research the current state of activities in the region and the nation’s capacity to contain the possible consequences of the planned expansion.
Delivering judgment in the matter on Tuesday, the judge, Inyang Ekwo, said that his removal was unconstitutional and as such, the court restored him as the Non- Executive Chairman of the national oil company with full benefits.
My passion for nation-building has fueled my desire to seek this office at this critical time when various divergent views of governance exist in different zones in the nation.
According to her, the R21 malaria vaccine dossier complied substantially with the best international standards with which the dossier was bench-marked.
He disclosed that a number of suspects had been arrested by the police and would be made to face the wrath of the law.
We must listen to one another and seek reconciliation.
UBA, the most vandalised among the three banks, was deserted when our reporter visited in March.
The result of the primary was announced at the APC State Secretariat in Yenagoa by the Chairman of the election committee, A T. Jibrin.
“While the originating summons was filed on Feb. 28, this petition was filed on March 21,” he argued.
In a related motion, the court granted an application seeking permission to apply for judicial review of a Freedom of Information (FOI) request made to the NPC.
For me, that is a striking reason and example of why this election was not about technical glitching.
In response to the border officials in March 2018, she alleged that her father retained her passport and raped her between September and December 2011 when they lived independently in the flat in Croydon (before he whisked her away to Nigeria).
The list reveals a captivating blend of politics, pop culture, and curiosity swept across the Nigerian digital landscape in the first quarter of 2023, as shown by Google’s top search trends.
Partisan democratic competition compels us to align ourselves with the camps that most reflect our ideals and aspirations.
PREMIUM TIMES reported that the labour unions had threatened to shut down the state from Wednesday and asked all their affiliates in the state to withdraw their services from Tuesday midnight over alleged disruption, looting and vandalisation of their properties during the workers’ day celebration.
We need to earn their confidence.
Mr Asadu was arrested alongside his 19-years-old sister, Daberechukwu Asadu in Igbo-Ukwu, a community in Aguata Local Government Area of the state.
Ceding this one position to me will be a way of proving that we are running an inclusive government.
The IGW also offered the opportunity for closed meetings and discussions between key stakeholders and partners.
“Later in the day, thunderstorms are expected over parts of Oyo, Ondo, Edo, Imo, Abia, Anambra, Ebonyi, Bayelsa, Delta, Rivers, Akwa Ibom and Cross River State,” it said.
Between 2011 and 2021, new HIV infections in the WHO African Region were reduced by 44 per cent and AIDS-related deaths by 55 per cent.
This, the prosecution said was an offence contrary to and punishments under section 16 of the Terrorism Prevision Amendment Act 2015.
Police nab notorious kidnap suspect, Danger, in Ekiti
I will not judge you.
The chairperson of Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, Abike Dabiri-Erewa, said this Thursday at the weekly ministerial briefing organised by the Presidential Communications Team.
Residents who spoke to reporters said security officials were not in sight during the mayhem.
The retired colonel, who was residing at a military quarter within the premises of the division in Enugu, had travelled to Nsukka, his home town, when the soldiers arrived in the area.
The Senate has rescheduled its resumption to 2 May , Clerk of the Senate, Chinedu Akubueze, has said.
“In addition, $56.13 million has been earmarked to be paid in 2023 by the SPDC JV and SNEPCo for a statutory contribution to Host Communities Development Trusts (HCDTs), which will benefit Nigerian communities,” it stated.
‘’Spurious allegations of this nature are common whenever there is a change in the baton of leadership, numerous examples abound: In particular, we wish to remind the signatory of the said ‘Advisory’ to a similar allegation made against the former Governor of Kano State, Dr Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso in 2014 of using public funds siphoned from the 44 local government areas to finance his presidential ambition.
The court ordered that the suspect be remanded at the Ogwashi Uku Correctional Centre while the case file be sent to the Director of Public Prosecution (DPP) for legal advice and prosecution of the suspect by the office of the DPP.
The respondents are expected to file their defence upon being served with the petition.
According to him, all recovered items, arrested suspects and rescued civilians were handed over to relevant authorities for further action.
So what are you expecting?,” he said.
She also referred to being raped by her father on “one or two” occasions after he had taken her back to live in Nigeria.
According to Mr Owonikoko, who joined virtually, disability inclusion is crucial to sustainable development, stressing the need for access to assistive technology for PWDs.
Of all the confirmed cases, NCDC noted that Ondo reported 32 per cent, while Edo and Bauchi recorded 29 and 11 per cent respectively.
Fire incident at palace of Ooni of Ife
The lawmakers said the planned concession of the Ajaokuta Steel Company on the eve of the departure of the Buhari administration may be self-serving.
He said the region should be represented in the leadership of the country considering that the president-elect comes from the South-west and his vice-president-elect from the North-east.
The humiliation then continued from the Promise Keepers who doubled the lead with Cyril Olisema’s well placed shot inside the opponent’s box to register his sixth goal of the season.
Chris Ngige would later clinch the governorship ticket of the party ahead of the 19 April, 2003 governorship election in the state.
Mr Buhari said this at the Nigerian Army Trooping and Presentation of Colours Parade 2023 on Thursday in Abuja.
She had also served as senior special assistant to the president on foreign affairs and diaspora.
This resolution was a sequel to a motion moved by Sergius Ogun (PDP, Edo) on Thursday during plenary.
“We have deployed additional directing staff and other categories of staff from contiguous states to states where we have governorship and senatorial elections,” Mr Okoye said.
He said Mr Akpabio is qualified for the office, having demonstrated loyalty to the party and to the president-elect, Bola Tinubu.
"Assuming a policeman beats you up in uniform, you don’t retaliate by beating the policeman"
So, when we saw the law, we were excited because it brought in innovations.
Here are seven tools used by ‘disinformants’ to create fake narratives.
Meanwhile, Mr Fashola conceded that there is a housing deficit in Nigeria and has offered how to approach it.
“Both the injured and those who died have been taken to the General Hospital in Ogoja by officers of the FRSC,” he said.
At the National level, they have to write essays too.”
A committee is a miniature of the whole House.
However, the police spokesperson in Ondo State, Funmilayo Odunlami, said calm had returned the town.
“Chimamanda betrays her ignorance of Nigerian politics and unwittingly misled her readers,” he stated.
Timipre Sylva emerges APC governorship candidate in Bayelsa
He said the NIS launched 16 new Forward Operation Bases (FOBs) across Nigeria and launched, on Jan. 15, 2019, an enhanced e-Passport, and a Booklet with 10-year validity.
He described workers as key to any development and growth in any given society.
He said it would amount to an exercise in futility for the Federal High Court to decide on a matter pending before the apex court.
“Without action by governments, industry, and society, AMR is expected to cause 10 million deaths each year by 2050 as overuse of antibiotics is creating stronger germs.”
Tragedy struck the Nigerian film industry dubbed Nollywood Sunday when news of the sudden demise of actor Murphy Afolabi filtered in.
The lawmakers frowned at the absence of the Chief Executive Officers of telecommunication companies, who were summoned to make presentations at the hearing.
He said the inauguration of the council would support the administration to consolidate the gains and achievements recorded in the digital economy sector.
Patricia Etteh and Dimeji Bankole presiding, and the North-west taking another chance between 2011 and 2015, with Aminu Waziri Tambuwal as Speaker and Emeka Ihedioha as Deputy.
He became a professor of Mathematics Education in 2018.
Mr Tinubu was in company with his wife, Remi Tinubu, and son, Seyi Tinubu, according to a press statement of the office of the president-elect signed by Tunde Rahman
When contacted on Monday night, the police spokesperson in Anambra State, Tochukwu Ikenga, confirmed the victim’s abduction to PREMIUM TIMES.
Mr Shettima, a former Borno governor, did not also speak on the ongoing corruption probe of Mr Akpabio.
He said he would introduce “a lot of reforms” if he is elected Senate president.
According to the court, there was also the failure to seek medical help, and the offender wrongly sought to blame others.
“We are in a meeting now.
‘‘I am glad to note, from the Board and Management update, the crucial activities and positive engagements by MOFI in just three months after inauguration,’’ he said.
“Max Air with capacity of 540 passengers, Azman Air with capacity of 400 passengers and C130 (NAF) are on ground to evacuate others while Tarco promised to make two more trips as well as Air Peace on standby,” NiDCOM wrote on Twitter.
We are doing what the constitution says that we should take our leader within ourselves.
The president also charged residents of the estate to consciously work together with the FHA to ensure the maintenance of the property and the safety of the environment.
Delivering judgment, a five-member panel of the apex court held that the Court of Appeal correctly reinstated Mr Adeleke as governor.
He expressed hope that God will lead him through in his new journey.
Speaking at the event, ECOWAS Commissioner, Economic Affairs and Agriculture, Massandjé Toure-Litse, noted that the ECOWAS Commission’s commitment to the WURI programme is motivated by the fact that it aligns with the institution’s Strategic Objectives (2022-2026) Enablers relative to Equitable Partnerships that is hinged on Resources Mobilisation and Building Convergence around Priority Programmes and Projects in the region.
She said, “The product details are as follows; PrimeZEN Black 6000 male enhancement capsules, manufactured by Volt Candy, 324 S. Diamond Bar Blvd #212, USA.”
A corruption-tainted London mansion that the Buhari administration had targeted for confiscation now belongs to Nigeria’s president-elect Bola Tinubu’s son through an offshore shell company, which is also linked to the politician’s surrogates.
ENACT is funded by the European Union and implemented by the Institute for Security Studies in partnership with INTERPOL and the Global Initiative against Transnational Organized Crime.
He even went as far as discouraging the electorate from voting for the party during the general election.
During his respective interactions with the Think-tanks and international media, the minister “presented the facts of the just concluded polls as against skewed narratives of the opposition and naysayers”.
He said the Masters of science degree in communication for social and behaviour change was developed and is going to be run in collaboration with the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF).
If only this death gave us a chance to move, sacrifice, run around to save you, I would have tried my best senior man, sure you know.
Mr Abdulmumin said the CBN bank was committed to supplying the “approved indent” for the smooth running of the economy.
Mr Malami, who has less than one month to stay in office, swiftly withdrew the case at the Federal High Court in Abuja, immediately after taking over the trial from the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) on Tuesday.
Ex-Gov Makarfi heads PDP committee for Kogi gov primary election
“My country, Israel, is developing practical, applicable and relatively inexpensive technologies, to help save our planet.
“In 2019, we did not collect N1 to go into that hall (Chamber) and vote Femi Gbajabiamila, and he had about 200 plus votes,” he said.
I know of one Angel Gabriel, said “Defence 3” [name and names of other witnesses withheld to protect them from retributions].
I send my heartfelt condolences to the Mbang family, the Methodist Church of Nigeria and the nation in general on the death of this patriotic Nigerian who lived an exemplary life.
“He said he was coming to Liberia on a peace talk so I should come,” said Defence 13.
The North-central is in a good position in the Speakership race if it is zoned to the region.
In a similar manner Liborous Oshioma, a Lagos-based lawyer, said though the sections struck down by the court still remain in the books, “but they have been invalidated.”
The question is, will the ruling party pay off its “religious debt”?
I told him if nobody could identify him, I know he is a politician in Ogun State and a rep-elect.
A follow-up call and texts were also not returned.
The Nigeria Supreme Council of Islamic Affairs (NSCIA) has declared that the Ramadan fast has ended Thursday while the Eid-el-Fitr will be on Friday.
“We are tired of life.
An additional one million non-traditional poor people living in urban areas were reached by the government with digital end-to-end cash transfers to enable them to deal with the deprivations caused by Covid-19.
Mr Aliyu complained that while the Nigerian government is making efforts to ensure its citizens have access to affordable electricity, many consumers and even government agencies default in payment of electricity bills.
“We congratulate this victory to the people of Turkey, election organisers, and political leaders and parties, and wish them the best outcome,” Aljazeera quoted spokesman Nasser Kanani as saying in a statement.
Mr Ibrahim said the competition was crucial as a lot of young people had formed the habit of using slangs, shortening words while writing, blaming the trend on the advent of social media.
To provide reprieve for the victims, Mr Maren urged relevant government agencies to provide relief material for the people.
But to block Mr Kanu’s release, the federal government hurriedly filed a four-ground notice of appeal against the Court of Appeal’s decision at the Supreme Court.
The missing Chibok school girls should be returned home to their families, and all those responsible for committing grave violations must face justice.”
LP and NNPP have 34 and 18 seats respectively, APGA four seats, ADC and SDP two each while YPP has one seat.
“These categories are margin dilutive and the exit is part of the company’s aim to make its operation in Nigeria competitive and profitable,” the document added.
Mr Ndubueze made his intention known in a letter addressed to the National Working Committee of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC).
Whatever personal differences we have must give way to the advancement of our great State.
He said the IPAC was also concerned about campaigns which adversely polarised the nation and undermined issues-based campaigns that would have strengthened frail electoral processes.
However, it appears that Mr Tony was unaware of the occasional admonition by UBA and other Nigerian banks.
“Since they have gone to court and there is a judgement on that, then they should exercise patience.
He argued further that Mr Fagbewesa’s evidence is not credible.
As I said earlier, I will deploy lobbying and advocacy, and close contact and interaction with the men.
The APC is also a beneficiary of such controversial defections.
Mrs Dabiri-Erewa also said it is time for Nigeria to focus more on Nigerians in Sudan and other parts of Africa because there are many of them residing there.
President Buhari has equally been briefed about the tragic killing of several persons in Bwoi District of Mangu Local Government Area of Plateau State, as well that of several villagers in Adaka village in Makurdi Local Government and in Ijaha community of Apa Local Government Area of Benue State.
She needs to realise that thousands, if not millions of Nigerians (including those of us who are now back home in Nigeria- but still frequently travel to those sides – to be a part of the solution and those still in the diaspora) have had similar and even better opportunities in Canada, US, UK and other countries of the world without deploying our privileged positions to undermine our country of origin, Nigeria.
She did not take a coronation oath as a part of the crowning ceremony.
He said Mr Gide himself selected the four students to be released.
“These include psychiatrists, psychologists, social workers, nurses, pharmacists, occupational therapists, lay counselors, disability specialists, persons with lived experiences, mental health advocates, and policy practitioners.
Before it gains traction and embarks on a life of its own, I wish to state clearly that the word “Reconciliation”, inserted into some reports of Peter Obi’s visit to me yesterday, Sunday, May 7, is a most inappropriate, and diversionary invocation.
Located in North Africa, apart from the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) which shares similar size and large swathes of land, Sudan shares borders with the DRC to its southwest, Chad to the west, Egypt to the north, Eritrea to the northeast, Ethiopia to the southeast, Libya to the northwest, South Sudan to the south and the Red Sea.
Also, Mr Adeshina said Mr Buhari in 2020 granted amnesty to 2,600 prisoners nationwide as part of Criminal Justice Reforms.
Mr Ajibola said the Senate committees will examine the president’s request based on the debt sustainability requirement under the Fiscal Debt Responsibility Act.
WHO added that the number of countries reporting disruption to their national supply chain system reduced from nearly half (29 of 59 responding countries) to about a quarter (18 of 66 responding countries) within the last year.
The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has raised the alarm over an alleged plan to influence the decision of the panel presiding over the presidential election petition tribunal.
Meanwhile, the JAMB official also described the conduct of this year’s examination as ‘one of the best’ the examination body has conducted in recent times.
Constitution Amendment: Ex-Kwara speaker writes Lawan, urges NASS to override Buhari
It is of course a summary of all the activities including the major contributions of the National Economic Council from 2015 to 2023.
She advised young girls to be wary of this trend and protect themselves by reporting all cases of sextortion to NAPTIP, stressing that they should not be afraid to speak up.
Mr Omotuyi, in his ex parte application, prayed the court for an order postponing the forthcoming census for six months.
FEC also approved contract for the full scope development of the Shehu Shagari Way for N91 billion.
The country’s Purchasing Manager Index (PMI) came in at 53.8 for the month on increased production level and improvement in new business, according to newly issued factory activity data.
Speaking in support of the motion, Jide Jimoh (APC, Lagos), said Mr Ekweremadu has served the nation meritoriously, hence, the country should come to his aid.
Precious Tonye Williams (HB Football Academy)
“Yes, three persons were killed in Sagamu by cultists.
Mr Obla had argued that the trial court erred in law when it held that the counts were incompetent because they were filed under Section 1(a) of the Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act, 2004 which was repealed by an Act of 2011.
Mr Ugo, who is currently serving at the Kano Division of the Court of Appeal, is hardly read about in the media.
In contrast, another group led by Fred Agbedi, a ranking PDP member from Bayelsa State, met at Fraser Suites, Abuja, and announced a plan to get a suitable candidate to back.
Save all conversations, chats, or messages between yourself and the perpetrator.
He said indigenes of the area were protesting the ongoing remapping in the state, a development he claimed had seen some oil producing communities in the area being ceded to its three neighbouring local government areas including Onna, where Governor Emmanuel hails from.
IGP orders posting, redeployment of AIGs
Imo State Government is yet to respond to the incident.
Hudu Yunusa Ari,” the commission wrote.
The judge said that the seventh prosecution witness was still in the witness box testifying and yet to be cross-examined when the application was made.
In another development, one Alhaji Mamman Shuwa was convicted and sentenced to nine years imprisonment before Justice Umaru Fadawu of Borno State High Court, Maiduguri on a three-count amended charge for obtaining money under false pretence to the tune of N2m (Two Million Naira).
The businessman also alleged that in 2012, he told Mr Elumelu about his interest in the Ughelli power plant and the Transcorp chair “quietly went ahead” to outbid him in the acquisition of the plant.
I think the provisions went too far without considering the fundamental human rights of Nigerians.
Spyro’s infectious hit, ‘Who is your guy?’ claimed the top spot, with Ruger’s ‘Asiwaju’ and ‘Carry Me Go’ by Boy Spyce and Khaid securing second and third places, respectively.
“Broadcasting is a means of exercising freedom of expression.
She added that the two reports are products of scientific research that revealed that the country would suffer the possibility of flood in three categories, including high, moderate and low flood risks.
The lawmaker says terrorists have killed over 400 people in Mangu/Bokkos federal constituency of Plateau State in the last four years.
A handful of tourism and conservation experts turned up at the Victor Attah International Airport, Uyo, Akwa Ibom State, on 16 March, to receive a pair of peafowls flown into the city from Abuja.
The governorship candidate of the All Progressive Congress (APC) in the 2023 governorship election in Adamawa State, Aishatu Dahiru, popularly called Binani, has asked the Federal High Court in Abuja to stop the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) from voiding an illegal declaration that named her as the governor-elect of the state.
I was told the matter will be investigated and will be resolved.
With almost all ballots counted, incumbent president Erdogan is leading with 49.42 per cent of the votes while Mr Kilicdaroglu has 44.95 per cent, according to official figures provided by state news agency Anadolu.
In a span of four months, between April and July of 1994, just like the Holocaust, a state-sanctioned hatred and dehumanization of an ethnic group brought to the fore by the murder of President Juvenal Habyarimana, jumpstarted a systematic and brutal genocide.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Mr Obi, the 1st petitioner, and LP, the 2nd petitioner, had sued the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Mr Tinubu, Kashim Shettima and APC as 1st to 4th respondents respectively.
The Kaduna State commissioner for internal security and home affairs, Samuel Aruwan, has said about 1,052 people were killed, 4,227 abducted and 648 were injured in 2022.
The Executive Secretary of the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB), Simbi Wabote, has called for transparency, prudent management of financial resources, and the deployment of a new master plan to attract private sector investment in the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC).
He said he acquired a number of assets, including the one shown in the video, with proceeds of his legal practice and wise investments in real estate of over 30 years.
But no date has been slated for the hearing of the case.
“I will take it upon myself to reach out to the other contenders.
With a record 10 appearances in the tournament, the Golden Eaglets, two-time winners in 2001 and 2007, are eager to reclaim their position as the dominant force in African youth football.
However, indications are emerging that Mr Tinubu and the APC have settled for some of the aspirants.
2023 UTME: JAMB to start releasing results soon – Official
Angola overtook Nigeria to emerge top African crude oil producer for the month of April, data from the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) has shown.
About 10 ranking members of the House have declared their interest in the speakership position.
God forbid, but if you fail to be on the side of transparency and good governance, and enhance the work of successor legislators, neither the executive nor the judiciary will.
Deputy Speaker Idris Wase (APC, Plateau), Yusuf Gagdi (APC, Plateau), Muktar Betara (APC, Borno), Sada Soli (APC, Katsina), Tunji Olawuyi (APC, Kwara) and Abubakar Makki (APC, Jigawa) have all declared interest.
My experience with “prejudiced” landlord — Osinbajo
We just want government at all levels, both federal and state, to pay attention to doctors’ welfare.”
We shall be running a pilot scheme over the next few months to gather sufficient data required to analyse the operational efficiencies relative to the current BRT buses to further improve our public transport service,” he said.
There are about 16 supplementary elections in Kano for the State House of Assembly and for the Doguwa/Tudun-Wada federal constituency that were declared inconclusive.
“Incidentally some of the other projects were approved apart from the project that has to do with the Kaduna-Kano segment.
Observers and party agents who witnessed the declaration alleged that it was made while the results of the election had not been completely collated.
Ex-president of CAN Mbang dies at 86
The counsels to the state government and the deceased’s family, Akin George and Femi Falana respectively, reportedly did not object to the application.
I give my respect to the northern governors who came out at that time to say that the North has produced presidents for 8 years,” he said.
Ultimately, this ‘arrival’ of the third force could either lead to more protracted politics or a deepening of democratic dialogue and deliberation.
to recommend applicants to us, people that are revered in the society that are expected to recommend people to us still betray us by giving us bad elements in the society…I call them the condemned one to join the police
At least 180 people have died and 1,800 injured in the ongoing fighting in Sudan between the Sudanese army and the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF), the UN said.
When PREMIUM TIMES contacted the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor Nasir El-rufai of Kaduna State, Ibrahim Musa, he declined to comment on the matter and directed the reporter to speak with the governor’s Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Muyiwa Adekeye.
The petitioners alleged that Mr Tinubu "corruptly induced" electoral officers to falsify results at local government and state collation centres in Rivers and 10 other states.
Contributing to the debate on the motion, Jibrin Isa (APC-Kogi), noted that there was a wide gap between the initial 22.7 billion dollars and the 973.5 million dollars.
“Court has decided to override any public opinion and pass the judgement of the court,” she ruled.
“He let me know that there were three categories of people he would not rent property in his care to – Igbos, Ijebus and lawyers.
“She is that”.
All of them have been stabilised.
“Our position is further buoyed by our dominant numerical strength, which by Parliamentary ethos, precedent and the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999, As Amended, allows us to contest the Presiding Officers position.
The two individuals will face separate challenges within the party.
During that meeting, attended by two other individuals only, the word “Reconciliation” was never bruited, neither in itself nor in any other form.
Mr Buhari’s chief of staff, Ibrahim Gambari, a professor, graced the event.
He said that the conference, slated to hold from May 23 to 24, would feature a stage play, titled “Ikenga: The Dramatic Recreation of the Igbo Landing Story,” and an exhibition that would capture the events of 1803 in various dimensions.
He stated that the agenda of the lawmaker is consistent with the values prized by the group.
Beyond the remarkable achievements of his administration in all sectors, President Muhammadu Buhari has demonstrated that he is a patriot, democrat and a man of impeccable integrity and character.
The group also confirmed that 98 of the Chibok girls have remained in captivity, while “more than 61 children are still being held in captivity two years after they were abducted by gunmen.”
There have been reports of sporadic shootings in the communities since Monday, with some residents deserting their homes.
“He has unreservedly restored the dignity of labour by promp payment of backlog of salaries and pensions in Osun State since assumption of office, and made a huge impact in the development of lives in the State in such a short time.
PSC approves deployment of new police commissioners for 11 states, FCT
His main challenger, Atiku got 29 per cent of the votes while Mr Obi scored 25 per cent.
In his remarks, Mr Lalong said that his administration has been committed to the prompt payment of salaries in spite of the financial burden it confronted through the inheritance of eight months of workers salaries from his predecessor.
A former Minister for Justice and Attorney-General of the Federation, Mohammed Adoke at the event congratulated the former NPA boss for having the courage to write about her experience.
The Nigerian government has accused IPOB, which is leading the agitation for the independence of Biafra, of being responsible for the deadly attacks in the South-east.
In the past year, both Lagos and Sokoto State governments have converted some polytechnics and colleges of education to universities.
“I am proud to have worked alongside all of you these past years.
Between 2015 and this year, Governor Ortom has constantly held security meetings and gathered intelligence to support security agencies operating in the state.
He said colours were usually retired after 10 years of service.
He has been a Speaker for 8 years and Governor for 8 years, DG presidential campaign twice, Presidential aspirant.
Mr Carson emphasised that for a candidate to win an election in Nigeria, like a lot of democracy in the globe, the three things, including substantial and significant financial resources were needed.
Social services took custody of little Susan after the incident until May 2011, when she was returned to her father (Mr RK).
In a press conference monitored on CNN, Manhattan District Attorney Alvin Bragg said there are 34 felony counts of falsifying business records in the first degree which under New York State law is a felony.
The endorsement was contained in a communiqué issued by the lawmakers after a meeting on Friday in Abuja.
The suspect, Mr Edafe said, was arrested when operatives of the command raided a “blackspot” along Osuani in Patani Local Government Area of the state.
The objective of the association is to organise and enlighten sociologists, anthropologists and interested persons in related disciplines to abide by appropriate ethical conduct in the teaching, research and practice of sociology and anthropology and to stimulate them to contribute sociological insights towards scholarship and national development.
Mr Ekere served as a deputy governor when Mr Akpabio was the Akwa Ibom governor.
The court also restrained the state government from further interfering with the operations of the union’s executives.
NAN also reports that the court had on 22 June 2022 issued a bench warrant for Mompha’s arrest following his absence in court.
“These non-kinetic approaches include addressing the root causes of terrorism, such as poverty, unemployment, and social inequality, as well as countering extremist propaganda and ideology through education and public awareness campaigns, the importance of this can never be overemphasised,” it added.
The monarch further said his love for the corps made him to donate the training ground for the southwest zone .
The Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Usman Akali, in his speech, reiterated’s the police’s commitment to the effective implementation of the Act.
It was after his coronation that some issues started coming up.
First was that we would all first move to the police station to lodge a formal complaint and from there, to the General Hospital, Onikan.
Group demands release of NYSC member accused of engaging in criminal activities
The governors had recently proposed a zoning formula for the choice of the leadership of the National Assembly.
Mr Bagudu said Mr Malami “successfully coordinated President Buhari’s electioneering promise of accountability to Nigerians.”
Messrs Apapa and Osuntokun engaged in a confrontation over who would sit at the litigants’ gallery in the courtroom, as the former asked Mr Osuntokun to give up his seat.
He was also Secretary to Kano State Government in the second republic under the administration of governor Sabo Bakin-Zuwo.
The application must, however, be received by the Tribunal not later than 56 days after the decision is sent to that party.
A medical and health worker at the Yariman Bakura Specialist Hospital said she received half of her salary for January and has not received anything since.
Speaking on the ongoing controversy trailing the speakership race, Mr Shettima said he is in constant talk with all the aggrieved aspirants in order to resolve the crisis.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Federal Government has also finished the Loko-Oweto Bridge in Nasarawa State and the Second Niger Bridge both to be inaugurated soon.
NEMA alerts Kwara of impending flood
On Monday, Mr Soyinka said Mr Emefiele and the president shares the blame for the hardship faced by Nigerians.
The President said the fighting power of the Nigerian military increased significantly under his administration.
The permanent secretary stated that in certain circumstances, preferences are given to developed countries on the basis of specifications.
He said this underscored the need for all police officers to continually respect the populace’s rights and be professional in all their conduct.
The National Bureau of Statistics said the total number of active voice subscribers in the fourth quarter of 2022 rose to 222,571,568 from the 195,463,898 reported in Q4 2021.
“Nobody knows that students can go to that level of indiscipline to cost the life of their mate,” the OAU official said.
Mr Aregbesola wished Muslims a happy Eid-el-Fitr celebration and prayed that the peace, blessings and favour of Allah would be with all.
Rabiu Kwankwaso of the NNPP got 1.2 million or 19 per cent of the total votes in the North-west.
Also, Chijioke Oke of KNCV-Nigeria, said children living with adults, who have TB, children who are HIV positive and malnourished children, were at risk of getting TB.
Mr Ndume, who represents Borno South, said any group laying claim to the ownership and parading themselves as officers of the Corps without the president’s approval is doing so illegally.
” By so doing, the board hopes that no citizen will be denied the opportunity of exercising their civic responsibilities.
Their call for the dismissal of the suit is contained in the separate preliminary objections they had filed in court.
He said the environment was so dirty that decayed human corpses were discovered at the dumpsites during the evacuation exercise.
She quotes “cousins” and “relatives” in Lagos to back up grievous allegations of violence and massive vote rigging in the election.
This has created more problems in their camp.
However, in a preliminary objection to Atiku’s petition, the electoral umpire, argued that there was no basis for the call for “a run-off and/or nullification of the said election.”
In his six years in the office, Mr Ajibola was reputed never to have collected a salary.
Count 2 said that Mr Eddy “on the same date.
He also said the path of the focus was to improve the regime of accountability and transparency, boost general industrial growth, agricultural development, combating environmental and climate crises such as flooding, strengthening rule of law and ensuring adequate security with a peaceful environment.
We urge all stakeholders, particularly young people, to participate in the ECOSOC Youth Forum and engage in discussions on strengthening trust in multilateralism.
“It is imperative that the President-Elect and the Party wade into this situation and announce an acceptable zoning formula as soon as possible.
Passport Data Page (attachment) f. Contact Details: Phone number(s) and email address.”
‘‘One of the measures that we have consciously deployed to attack poverty, create prosperity and develop our economy is the aggressive provision of infrastructure nationwide.
Mr Kolade listed the seized items to include five sacks of pangolin scales, 398 sacks of Indian hemp, weighing 8,756kg and another 2,308 compressed parcels of Indian hemp of 1kg each.
“That I have never demonstrated an inability to perform or to continue to perform the functions of my office as the non-executive chairman of the 2nd defendant,” the plaintiff wrote.
Lassa fever is an acute viral hemorrhagic (excessive bleeding) illness transmitted to humans through contact with food or household items contaminated by infected rodents or contaminated persons.
The minister also used the opportunity of the interactions to call on the foreign media to stop regurgitating social media fables on Nigeria’s 2023 elections on their platforms.
The police in Ebonyi State, south-east Nigeria, said they have arrested four people who allegedly killed Christopher Ewa, the traditional ruler of Umuezeokaoha Community in Ezza North Local Government Area of the state.
Polling booths opened early on Saturday morning for the supplementary elections in Imo State amid large turnout and tension.
“We would continue to invest in all aspects of education, from primary, secondary, technical, tertiary and skills development, as well as create opportunities for young people and support small and medium-sized enterprises.”
The declaration followed a strong financial result for the year during which the lender reported an increase of 28.5 per cent in net profit to N19.3 billion.
Mr Soludo, represented by Onyekachukwu Ibezim, his deputy, said it was for his concern that he made environment reclamation through massive waste evacuation, drainage desilting and urban renewal his first priority upon assumption of office.
PREMIUM TIMES reported how fighting started on 15 April between the Sudanese army and paramilitary RSF, both headed by army generals.
Correcting such lapses and ensuring better coordination will help prevent such avoidable incidents in the future,” Mr Soludo explained.
“The total number of direct beneficiaries of the implemented programmes currently stands at 1.8 million vulnerable Nigerians and a total of 9,527 Nigerians have also been directly employed through the implementation of the programmes so far.
“It was too much for us.
The committee subsequently went into a closed-door session to deliberate on the details of the budget.
It will help in guiding public officials in knowing that there is room for posterity and posterity will come calling.
“Sadly, the gallant officer paid the supreme price, suffering a heavy blow to his skull inflicted by one of the hoodlums while preventing them from dispossessing him of his firearm.”
Malaria, although preventable and treatable, continues to have a devastating impact on the health and livelihood of people around the world.
Malaria Vaccine: What to know about life-changing R21
“Risk Statement, PrimeZen Black 6000 capsules containing sildenafil and tadalafil may interact with nitrates found in some prescription drugs (such as nitroglycerin) and cause a significant drop in blood pressure that may be life-threatening.
He was a military head of state between December 1983 and August 1985.
“In the eyes of the law, the sections struck down by the court are dead.”
In her words, “If results were updated right after voting was concluded, then the ruling party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), which has been in power since 2015, would have no opportunity for manipulation.
“They want me to always be at loggerheads with the governor of the state and I told them that I don’t need to always do that over their own welfare.
Maikyau, SAN, and his delegation of Chairmen, Secretaries, and other senior members of the Bar from the branches of NBA in Rivers State were received by Mr. Kingsley Wenenda Wali, and Mrs Wali, the younger brother and the wife of the kidnapped former president,” a statement by NBA’s spokesperson, Lawal Akorede, said on Monday.
The minister also decried the enormous challenges of running correctional services with huge demands for infrastructure, equipment and maintaining the welfare of inmates.
You will have a living wage to have a decent life and provide for your families,” he said.
However, for some individuals, social media is a platform to engage in illicit transactions, including posing as reps of different Nigerian banks to defraud customers desperately in need of assistants.
“However, the prosecution chose to separate the charges, thereby trying to punish the second defendant twice,” he said.
“Two hours after that I received another report that was not good.
Europe, and the rest of the world too, should not underestimate Africa, talk down to Africa or give instructions to Africa – Don’t take Africa for granted!”
“He has served this country meritoriously with a very good record.
The commissioner said the state government has achieved major feats in fighting insecurity which led to the killing of 628 terrorists in 2022.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the batch was the 15th set of Nigerians the Federal Government airlifted back to the country.
According to the report, the number of estimated customers was 5.93 million in Q4 2022, higher by 0.34 per cent from the 5.91 million reported in Q3 2022.
Faulting Mr Obi’s petition, the APC argued that Section 77(3) of the Electoral Act mandates a political party to submit its membership register to the electoral umpire 30 days before their presidential primary election.
Two days later, the mother came home to find her son in pain.
The group also reiterated its commitment to advocating the rights of all Nigerians, especially the vulnerable and marginalized, adding that they “will continue to work with the government, civil society organisations, and other stakeholders to ensure that the rights and dignity of all Nigerians are respected and protected.”
“I did not offer the police any bribe.
‘‘At the inauguration, I charged the Steering Committee to prepare inclusive Plans that would cover all shades of opinion and ensure even and balanced development, as well as put in place necessary legislations for continuous implementation of plans even after the expiration of the tenure of successive administrations.
“So, the IGP has taken the bull by the horn to make sure that we access most of these things and discuss with relevant MDAs to see what we can do,” he said.
“The court will interpret the position, I don’t think any reasonable Nigerian who can read and knows what the ‘AND’ means can make their interpretation and argue with it.
Police arrest two suspected kidnappers in Niger
The total airlines blocked funds in Nigeria as of March amounted to $717,478,606 comprising matured bids that the CBN was yet to deliver, bids yet to mature and cash balances in airlines’ accounts for repatriation.
To this effect, the Senate harmonised the terms of the 2016-2018 federal government’s external borrowing plan for the project.
We cannot finish all at a time.
The Ooni stressed the excitement that comes with identifying the root of one’s origin.
All the banks in Oron are along Oron Road, except UBA which is at Anwana Esin Road
Four people killed in Uyo cult clash
“The Commission’s approval for the enrollment of 1007 recruited personnel into the Nigeria Police Force in the recruitment exercise of 2021/2022 into the IPPIS payment platform for the purposes of salaries and other emoluments has been conveyed to the Accountant General of the Federation.
• Mohammed Danjuma Goje – Gombe Central
He truly loved Nigeria.
“With the calibre of governors-elect I see here today, I can say confidently forum is going to be in good hands,” Mr Tambuwal said.
Some workers were paid in February but they were a minority.
Residents of the communities are mostly Hausas while the members of terrorist gangs suspected to have carried out the original attack are primarily Fulanis.
She supported Mr Peter Obi, candidate of the Labour Party (LP) in Nigeria’s February 25, 2023, presidential election and hoped he would win “as many polls had predicted “.
“Some are coming out from buildings that are collapsing.
The former senators, numbering about 76, made their position known at a press briefing in Abuja on Tuesday evening.
However, the terrorists held on to 11 of the girls.
Mr Ari declared the APC candidate winner on Sunday at the coalition centre in Yola, the state capital.
Mr Uhumwago and his party also said they would bring to the tribunal a video clip showing how the local government collation allegedly flip-flopped by first saying the result of Ward 4 was unavailable and then announcing that the result from the ward was cancelled for now.
“It is against this backdrop and in line with the traditions, customs and ethics of the Nigerian Army, trooping and presentation of colours parade 2023 will be conducted to retire torn or worn out colours.
“Igbophobia is in his (Tinubu) veins and by not including Igbo people in the handover committee, he is only trying to reopen old wounds.
President Buhari affirms that the senator, who represented Osun-West in the Upper Chamber of the National Assembly, solidified his base and gradually built a formidable network of friends and political allies that have helped his many victories, including leading one of the 36 states in the country.
It is not surprising that those were the only two out of the country’s six geopolitical zones that he won despite his marginal victories in Lagos in the South-West as well as Nasarawa and Plateau states in the North-Central.
Sterling Bank tops this week’s pick on the strength of declaring a dividend of N0.15 per unit for fiscal year 2022, summing up to a planned payout of N4.3 billion.
The governor stated this Tuesday while commissioning a 16.71km Abak Ifia – Ikpe Mbak Eyop Road which traversed two local government areas —- Ikot Ekpene and Obot Akara —- in the state.
The Deputy Chief Whip of the Senate, Aliyu Sabi Abdullahi (APC – Niger), supported the motion.
Police say several IPOB members fled with gunshot wounds.
10:50am: Oba Maduabuchi (SAN) announces appearance for the AA party.
She said: “It is with the passion that the Vice-President and Chairman of the NCN, Yemi Osinbajo, desires that every nutrition intervention contributes to ensuring every household in rural, peri-urban, and urban areas have access, can afford and indeed benefit from nutrition interventions as made available by the government, in collaboration with their partners and numerous stakeholders.”
This cannot continue.
He urged the court to dismiss the case describing the allegations as unfounded and speculative as the NGO did not establish that it suffered from the alleged violation.
PREMIUM TIMES reported that the Director-General of the Debt Management Office, Patience Oniha, said the next administration will inherit a public debt of N77 trillion if the N23 trillion ways and means loan is securitised.
Data from the election management body, INEC, shows that voter turnout was slightly higher during the governorship election with 31 per cent participation across the 28 states.
The gubernatorial and state legislative elections, which were held in March, accounted for 44 per cent, while the February presidential and National Assembly elections accounted for 31 per cent, resulting in an alarming sum of 71 per cent directly linked to elections.
Ekpenyong: My background in the enforcement of fundamental human rights as well as constitutional law inspired the action.
“The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) calls on the people of Adamawa State, Nigerians and the International Community to disregard the purported declaration of the defeated candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Aisha Binani as winner of the Adamawa State Governorship election,” he said.
LP has the third highest number of members-elect of the House.
Disquiet as Nigeria govt commissions N12bn firefighting trucks
Speaking at the roundtable, a Professor of Clinical Microbiology at the College of Medicine of the University of Lagos (CMUL), Idi-Araba, Oyinlola Oduyebo, said AMR increases morbidity and mortality rates and that it is associated with high economic costs due to its healthcare burden.
Gov Ortom replies Presidency, says Buhari endorses Benue killings
The supplementary polls are also being conducted for three State Constituencies of Isu, Ahiazu Mbaise and Ideato South.
The committee, which has Yusuf Yusuf (APC-Taraba ) as chairman was given one week to turn in its report.
He said aspirants for the position have to move around the country to visit governors.
Each dose of R21 is expected to cost a couple of dollars.
Similarly, the agreement shows that the loan will become effective 120 days after the signature date (August 16, 2022) and it will terminate 20 years after the signature date.
It’s way in front there and you can see that there are several extensions that have been granted by both the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing and NIWA.
He urged the crowd of supporters present at the event to continue cheering her on and wished her success.
About three political parties have challenged the outcome of the election at the tribunal; most of them argued that the Independent Electoral Commission (INEC) failed to abide by its guideline on the transmission of results.
Ex-parliamentarian, brother shot on live TV in India
On his part, the suspect admitted to having committed the act, that he actually dis-flowered his daughter, saying he was hypnotized after his wife left in 2020.
“I haven’t looked at the books, so I wouldn’t want to be quite preemptive.
She claimed the crisis that ensued forced INEC to void the original declaration naming her the governor-elect of the state.
“We will tackle issues through legislations to empower Nigerians and particularly the youth.
The Turkish leader also said his country attached great importance to improving its relationship with Nigeria as the strongest nation in Africa.
He said the troops of Operation Octopus Grip also destroyed 22 wooden boats, 237 storage tanks, 204 ovens and 30 dugout pits used for illegal oil bunkering.
The commission has powers under Section 13(2) of the EFCC Act to prosecute offences so long as they are financial crimes,” he added.
The examination body urged the affected candidates to re-print their examination slips on Wednesday, 26 April to know their new scheduled venue, date and time.
During the commission of the project in May 2022, Mr Emmanuel said the revenue base of the state would rise, describing it as a major foreign exchange earner, Vanguard newspaper reported.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that attached to the letters of intent is Mr Kalu’s Legislative Agenda, which has six priorities.
Mr Gambari, a professor, made the call in Birnin Kebbi while briefing journalists following a visit to Governor Atiku Bagudu and the Emir of Gwandu, Muhammadu Bashar.
Some Twitter users, however, were indifferent about the cheap option Mr Abah opted for, considering that the warranty on the device may have been voided.
The Presidency’s statement is a reckless stab by agents of genocide against the Benue people by blaming the victims.
The highest percentage increase is in the South-South region of the country.
The region was affected by flooding, which resulted in the deaths of 23 people and the destruction of approximately 14,496 farms.
Raising the motion earlier, Mr Adams cited Section 196, Subsection 2; Section 198 and Section 126, Subsection 3 which gave backing to the House of Assembly in respect of nominations by the governor for appointments.
The defendant pled not guilty, and the prosecutor applied that he be remanded in prison pending the conclusion of the trail.
“Engaging a governor who has a majority in the House of Representatives in terms of members-elect is important.
“We are working with the governors to help relocate all the obstructions, otherwise, we cannot fully build it.
The supplementary elections are taking place in some polling units across the 23 local government areas for 10 National Assembly seats not concluded on 25 February.
Police spokesman Benjamin Hundeyin confirmed the removal in a statement he issued in Lagos on Saturday.
We met him and had a fruitful discussion about the situation.
However, the government obtained an order from the Court of Appeal staying the execution of its earlier order freeing Mr Kanu.
The Presidency has shown in this recent public statement that they have placed cows above human lives and made the animals to urinate on the graves of those they massacred in Benue and elsewhere across the country.
Unilever said in a statement in March it would end its homecare and skin-cleansing businesses “to concentrate on higher growth opportunities.”
The federal government has berated some Western countries for giving credence to the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), a terrorist organisation.
The National Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Debo Ologunagba at a press conference on Sunday said there are indications that the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) is attempting to influence the tribunal judgement in favour of its candidate, Bola Tinubu.
Elections were held across the seven states of Nigeria’s northwest and the APC won in five states (Kaduna, Katsina, Kebbi, Jigawa, and Sokoto State).
In 2011, Aminu Tambuwal and then Vice President Namadi Sambo were from the same zone.
Why did Donald Trump repeatedly make these false statements?
The governor, represented by his deputy, Obafemi Hamzat, pledged to continue to provide basic needs of citizens and the right kind of leadership anchored on transparency and accountability.
Suleiman Nguroje, the spokesperson of the police in the state, said, in a statement on Saturday, that the victims were a four-year-old and a seven-year-old, who live on Ajiya Street, Jimeta.
Those of them that have availed themselves to be registered the Constitution gives them that right whether they go to the polls to vote or not.
An Executive Board member of IPI Global, Raheem Adedoyin, said the inauguration of the committees is one of the best steps taken so far by IPI Nigeria.
Mr Ikenga, a deputy superintendent of police, however, said details of the abduction remain sketchy.
Mrs Adeyeye added that the product can be identified by the card colour in black with the name on it PrimeZen Black 6000.
“May I use this opportunity to further appeal to the abductors, having regard to Mr Okey Wali’s age and health condition, to consider releasing him to his family immediately,” Mr Maikyau said in an email he sent to lawyers some minutes before midnight on Tuesday.
The endemic countries are the Central African Republic, Cameroon, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Ghana, Liberia, Nigeria, and the Republic of Congo.
The student said the conflict in Sudan is not likely to be resolved soon.
Mr Tinubu’s argument that he chose Mr Shettima based on the latter’s competence and not on religious consideration did not pacify his critics.
This could affect how they address or respond to citizens in the cause of their duties.
The steps that have been taken by Governor Ortom are the conventions,” he said.
Among those in attendance were Vice President-elect Kashim Shettima and Governors Simon Lalong (Plateau), Nasir el-Rufai (Kaduna), Aminu Masari (Katsina), Hope Uzodinnma (Imo), Abubakar Badaru (Jigawa), Babajide Sanwo-Olu (Lagos), Ben Ayade (Cross Rivers), AbdulRahman AbdulRasaq (Kwara), Dapo Abiodun (Ogun) and Biodun Oyebanji (Ekiti).
This was when targeted Russian attacks on Ukraine’s energy supply began.
Mrs Obinabo has warned that anyone caught abusing any child in Anambra state must face the consequences, Ms Ikeanyionwu said.
Others are Zakaria Alfa, Musa Wada, Bolu Femi, and Idoko Idah.
The judge said Mr Teixeira’s financial affidavit showed he qualified to be represented by a federal public defender, and he appointed one.
The ruling party is counting on the supplementary elections to expand its majority in both chambers of the National Assembly.
“Infrastructure costs have also become very exorbitant.
P&ID accepts that the company’s access to privileged documents was a “strange” feature of the arbitration, but argues that Nigeria has not been able to establish that it obtained them through bribery.
“Currently, the official copy of the legislation is not easily accessible on any government website for public engagement and review.”
“…but there is no evidence of the astronomical U.S.-dollar amounts he is rumoured to have received from the president-elect.
Waiting Outside the Tomb:
Garba Shehu, the president’s spokesperson had on Monday via a statement revealed that this year’s official visit from April 11 to 19 would be Mr Buhari’s last trip to the Kingdom as president.
Residents, police disagree over number of those abducted by terrorists in Zamfara community
After six and half hours of voting, the PDP candidate polled 185 votes while APC polled 167 votes.
The first session – Africa in the World: Multiple assets – examined Africa’s place in the world, highlighting the continent’s assets and potential, without downsizing the current barriers to achieving this potential.
Mr Saleh expressed the sadness of his country in Mr Buhari leaving office and expressed the hope that the Tinubu government will maintain the same interest in the independence struggle.
We also wish you and ourselves a renewed commitment to holiness and righteousness to the glory of God and the greatness of our beloved country.
“Hence I come before you my esteemed colleagues to ask for your support as I vie for the role of deputy speaker of the 10th Assembly,” she said.
Mr Betara, who represents Biu/Bayo/Shani and Kwaya Kusar Federal Constituency of Borno, has been canvassing support for his speakership aspiration with party members, House of Reps members-elect, former lawmakers and other stakeholders.
10:56am: Confusion ensues as Malachi Umuebe also announces appearance for the AA party.
“Arbitrarily imposing fines on media houses simply for carrying out their constitutional duties would both seriously undermine the rights of millions of Nigerians to express their thoughts, and their right to seek, receive, and impart information and ideas of all kinds, in any medium they choose.”
According to the cleric, Nigerians are saddened that the courts have been invaded by the political class leaving the “toxic fumes” that now threaten the judiciary’s reputation as the last hope for all citizens.
Here are some of the highlights of the event.
Tajudeen Abbas (APC, Kaduna) and Ben Kalu (APC, Abia) have been reportedly tipped for speaker and deputy speaker, respectively.
They stated that there are indications that the NEC of the party, the highest decision-making body of the party, will meet in the coming days, and they expect the body to intervene.
Musa Audu, attached to Wuye Division, posted on guard duty at the said church.
“They will circulate side-by-side for transactions ahead of the Dec. 31 deadline, when the old N1,000, N500 and N200 banknotes will eventually be phased out,” he said.
Mr Mahmoud alleged that the petitioners walked out of the meeting on Tuesday.
Atiku scored 3,108 votes, while Mr Kwankwaso scored 44 votes.
“What makes them think that I am weak?
“It’s neither Mercedes, Mack, Renault or Scania… I wonder why an unknown brand will be this expensive.
Mr Gumel said all police commands have been directed by the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Usman Alkali, to collaborate with the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in ensuring that all electoral offenders are expeditiously and transparently prosecuted.
“This demand for sanction is in line with President Buhari’s request on February 17, 2022, in Brussels, Belgium, wherein he called on the European Union (EU) to impose “weighty sanctions” on those engaged in “unconstitutional change of governments” as well as those influencing the “process and outcomes of elections”.
It’s a 32-team tournament that features national teams from various countries competing for the championship.
“Without our readers, we would not be here,” said PREMIUM TIMES managing editor Idris Akinbajo.
Renowned Nigerian novelist, Chimamanda Adichie, has replied the All Progressives Congress (APC) which called for her arrest following a letter she wrote to the American President, Joe Biden, alleging that the 2023 election was flawed.
“Justice Ahmad Muhammad while delivering the judgment stated that the prosecution had successfully proved the case beyond a reasonable doubt, thereby convicted and sentenced Ibrahim Isah to life imprisonment for the offence of rape punishable under Section 3(1) of the Penal Code Law of Jigawa State 2014 (Miscellaneous Amendment) Law, the spokesperson stated.
Work within OPIC area between Kara Bridge and Long Bridge completed, to be opened to traffic Sunday.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the university was established by the immediate past governor of the state, Adegboyega Oyetola, on 31 March 2022, when he upgraded the College of Education, Ilesa, to a full-fledged university.
Unusually modest and made every effort to make those around him feel comfortable.
The judgment is from a suit filed by Governor Willie Obiano’s administration.
— Ikechukwu Oyemike (@itisikechukwu) April 3, 2023
The matter was said to have been referred to the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) for further investigations.
The child, it was learnt, had staggered outside carrying waste bins which the suspect had instructed her to dispose of when some residents observed that the girl’s face was bloated and there were several injuries on her body.
Besides, the lawmaker, who is from the North-west, promised to respect the zoning formula of the party, but said it must be done on the basis of equity and fairness.
Since the minister made the announcement, many Nigerians have raised concerns about the sustainability of the loan and how it could worsen the nation’s debt burden.
Below are the highlights of the total 13 grounds of appeal on which the federal government anchored its appeal.
The newspaper did not state when the incident occurred.
When he is not working, Mr Mojeed likes travelling and watching football.
— Ceekay (@ceekay553) April 3, 2023
My plea with President Muhammadu Buhari to halt all study leaves, foreign transfers, postings of officers critical to take-off of incoming administration
He was still in EFCC custody as of the time of filing this report Wednesday evening.
The senators-elect visited Mr Tinubu in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital after he commissioned projects on the invitation of the state governor, Nyesom Wike.
Nigeria’s National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) has made further clarifications on the controversies surrounding the discovery of cancer-causing substances in the chicken flavour of Indomie noodles by health authorities in Malaysia and Taiwan.
Mr Okoye, therefore, made an oral application to substitute the initial charge filed in March with the new charge.
It bears repeating that Sudan is one of the most consequential countries in Africa, with a pedigree in antiquity.
Former President, Goodluck Jonathan, has urged Nigerians to show love to one another and imbibe the spirit of sacrifice as a means of rebuilding trust and building a stable and prosperous nation.
He also said the governors were ready for any assignment the president-elect may give them.
“I am shocked to notice that,” he said.
“The NMA backed up its shocking disclosure with a written petition where it articulated what it described as the ‘destruction and looting of Aba General Hospital in the twilight of this outgoing administration’,” he stated.
Mrs Adeyeye said the products flagged by both Taiwan and Malaysian health authorities are not registered in Nigeria and so have nothing to do with the country.
Such, for instance, were the virulent attacks and threats to the musician Seun Kuti, his family and iconic music Shrine.
Speaking against the motion, Nicholas Ossai (PDP, Delta), said the proposal is against the principle of the 1999 constitution.
Olujonwo Obasanjo, one of the sons of former President Olusegun Obasanjo, has endorsed the bid of former governor of Akwa Ibom State, Godswill Akpabio for the Senate presidency.
More than 11,000 police were deployed to stamp out any attempted disruption, and the Republic campaign group said its leader Graham Smith had been arrested along with five other protesters.
“What I mean by using fascism for INEC is that for so many of us including myself this is not in any way a technological glitch.
The journalist’s lawyer, Addisu Almaw, told CPJ that he was renditioned to Ethiopia and was held at the Federal Police Crime Investigation Center in the capital city of Addis Ababa.
He said the commission had achieved topmost success in all ramifications in terms of the preparation.
According to him, the maintenance works are critical to the structural integrity of the bridge.
The Archbishop of Abuja Catholic Archdiocese, Mr Kaigama, in his message challenged “leaders and followers to shun vices and uphold virtues to build a new Nigeria desired by all.”
Baroness Margaret Thatcher of Kesteren, 24 February 1996.
*ATTACK ON APC MEMBERS IN PORT HARCOURT IS BARBARIC, DESERVES URGENT AND THOROUGH INVESTIGATION*
He said he reassured Mr Wali’s family of “the unflinching support and companionship of the NBA in this challenging period and beyond.”
“Even the day before yesterday (Friday), we went to meet the Finance Commissioner over the problem.
In 2016, it attempted to do so following a dispute a year earlier when Sudan’s then-President Omar al-Bashir visited the country for an African Union summit.
“The country’s aviation industry will suffer if there’s continuous astronomical increase in airfare,” she said.
He had vowed that the protest would continue until the commission met their demands.
And the gender action policy.
Jacob Olaniyi, the returning officer, announced Mrs Akande-Sadipe as the winner in Ibadan, at the end of the supplementary election held in two polling units in the constituency.
“One of them was neutralised while others escaped with bullet wounds,’’ he stated.
The woman said she lived on the VP Road in Paynesville with a friend, while Mr Massaquoi made frequent visits in and out of Liberia for peace purposes.
“Few members of the National Working Committee (NWC), led by Comrade Lamidi and others declared themselves the new leaders of our party.
Read the agency’s full statement below:
The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Osun has condemned the sacking of the Vice-Chancellor of the University of Ilesa, Kayode Ijaduola, the Registrar, Oluwole Dada, and the Liberian, Adedokun Ojelabi, by Governor Ademola Adeleke.
While slapping the policeman, he repeatedly asked: “You dey mad’’?
Nigeria deploys 197 peacekeepers to Gambia
President Muhammadu Buhari shares in the joy of the occasion as Governor Ademola Adeleke of Osun State celebrates his 63rd birthday, 13 May, 2023.
Mr Tinubu returned to Abuja on Monday aboard his private jet, accompanied by his wife, Oluremi, and son, Seyi, after a month-long trip to Paris.
South Africa’s decision is coming one month after the ICC issued an arrest warrant for Russia’s President Vladmir Putin and his Commissioner for Children’s Rights.
Following Mr Alia’s emergence, the outgoing administration of Mr Ortom inaugurated a transition committee comprising members of the APC and the PDP in the state on 27 April.
One can only give from the abundance of what he/she has.
The experts spoke at the ongoing second edition of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) National Aviation Conference holding in Abuja.
The torrential rainfall also caused havoc in communities such as Ajaka, Express Junction, Ogunyanwo, Olayinka and Isale-Ojumele areas of the Sagamu Local Government Area.
According to him, what will be left is nine kilometres from Kilometres 17 to 27.
The source, however, said what was not clear was whether the bandits were in transit or setting up a new base in the area.
In February, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) urged the Nigerian government to deliver on its commitment to remove fuel subsidies by mid-2023.
“Many television stations are on the 476-700 MHz including free view, DTT, pay TV, private TV, NTA community stations and state government-owned television.
The judge concluded that the admission of the evidence imposed no fundamental unfairness on Mr RK and that it would be inappropriate to exclude it.
Africa, Latin America and Europe will lose about 490 million people in the same period.
“In His Excellency, Governor Wike, I see a man of principle.
On the other side, for the purposes of the appeal, Macpherson Mickel, counsel to Mr Fagbewesa, conceded that if the tribunal finds that Mr Fagbewesa was the owner of the cigarettes, then the dishonesty automatically follows.
Dissatisfied with the court’s ruling, Kanu’s lead counsel, Mr Ozekhome, filed an appeal predicated on three grounds at the apex court.
The commandant charged the troops with discharging their duties in line with the mission’s mandate while urging them to adhere strictly to the mission’s rules of engagement.
Mr Kolade added that the three exotic armoured vehicles without customs documents and End User Certificates were intercepted on the Patani-Bayelsa-Port Harcourt Expressway.
He said, within the last one year, his administration had worked with security agencies to fight crimes and restore law and order in the state.
“It is heartwarming and morale boosters for our party in the ongoing various cases at the election petition tribunals all over the country, including Lagos state.
“I just came to congratulate and officially welcome him back to the country and we are ready to support him for the task ahead,” Mr Kalu said.
“They did not even come close, in spite of their pre-election grandstanding.
The Zamfara State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has accused the Inspector-General of Police, Usman Baba, of harassing and plotting to arrest its members.
“One thing is indubitably certain: working together in unity and mutual love and respect, we can take Nigeria to real next level of peace, progress and development,” the letter read in part.
“All recovered items and apprehended suspects have been handed over to the relevant authorities for further action.
“Those who know me personally in the current 9th Assembly have described me as calm, cool and collected.
He also said that NIS deployed enhanced e-Passport Production Centres in Nigeria, and in London, Washington DC, among others.
The latest incident comes barely two days after police killed two gunmen along Umusiome Nkpor, a community in Idemili North Local Government Area of the state.
With nearly identical levels of fertility in 1971, just under six births per woman, the countries have charted their population path into the 21st century, according to the UN Department of Economic and Social Affairs (DESA).
Organ Trafficking: Ekweremadu’s daughter speaks on parents conviction
Central Africa’s pangolins slaughtered for myths and meat
And we are well prepared to use the mandate of Nigerians to make laws that will ensure good governance for Nigeria,” Mr Olawuyi said.
Mr Banga brings with him an impressive resume, having served as president and CEO of Mastercard, a global organisation with nearly 24,000 employees and as Honorary Chairman of the International Chamber of Commerce between 2020 and 2022.
He did not oppose the application.
The ward executives of the party went ahead with the suspension despite a court order restraining them from investigating and taking any disciplinary action against Mr Goje.
Customs intercept 553 parcels of cannabis sativa in Seme
“For the avoidance of doubt, from 1999 to 2007, the position of Speaker was zoned to the North-west with Rt.
The group disclosed this in a statement by its spokesperson, Emma Powerful, on Tuesday, according to a report by Vanguard newspaper.
“We urge patients to wait for test results so that they can be referred to the right Centre for expert management of their condition.
The Court’s President, Adewale Adegoke, told both parties to be at peace with each other.
PREMIUM TIMES reported that a writer, Chimamanda Adichie, in an open letter to Mr Biden, criticised the US government for congratulating Mr Tinubu on his victory at the poll.
We have formed a united front.
“The evacuation is done through a total number of 15 flights, with four from Aswan, Egypt and 11 from Port Sudan.
In the request filed by his lawyer, Chris Uche, a SAN, Atiku argued that the petitions before the court are “matters of national concern involving citizens who voted during the last election.”
Binani and APC, in the motion ex-parte marked: FHC/ABJ/CS/510/2023, had sued INEC, PDP and its candidate, Mr Fintiri as 1st, 2nd and 3rd respondents respectively.
While Air Peace conveyed 282, NAF conveyed 96 evacuees, according to the Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Sadiya Farouq, while addressing the press.
So, already I got much on the desk to keep a good focus on and I remain hopeful that I am going to do just that.”
He also endorsed Tajudeen Abbas (North-west) and Ben Kalu (South-east) for speaker deputy speaker respectively.
“This is a testimony to your enthusiasm to the training and the upcoming deployment to the mission area.
Nigerian Breweries laments dollar scarcity amid hike in cost of raw material
The allegation was made by the Chairman of the Transition Committee of the New Nigeria People Party (NNPP), Baffa Bichi.
Lagos auto spare parts dealer arraigned for sexual harassment
Energy magnate Femi Otedola is said to have racked up shares to the equivalent of a 5.5 per cent stake in Transcorp, making him the second on its ownership pecking order behind UBA Nominees Limited, which holds 9.25 per cent.
Others are AIG Maritime Lagos, Yekini Ayoku; AIG Zone 13 Ukpo Dunukofia, Olofu Adejoh; AIG Zone 7 Abuja, Aliyu Garba; AIG ICT FHQ Abuja, Idris Dauda; AIG Research and Development, Yusuf Usman and AIG Zone 4 Makurdi, Haladu Ros-Amson.
Mr Abbas said the North-west has almost 26 per cent of the entire 360 members of the House.
INEC says that doesn’t deprive him of victory.
Though Cahill maintained the payments were lawful gifts “to support Grace with any legal or medical assistance she needed” after she had retired, he admitted under cross-examination that in 2019 he directed them to one of Taiga’s daughters in the United States so that Nigerian law enforcement would not become aware of the transfers.
The controller charged all stakeholders, officers and men of the command and sister border agencies along the corridor to remain vigilant and alert during the Salah celebration as smugglers might wish to take advantage of the public holidays to engage in their reprehensible acts.
A lapse in judgment should not lead to condemnation.
Similarly, the state Head of Service, Hakeem Muri-Okunola, also assured that the administration would continue to meet its obligations and responsibilities as far as enforcing workers rights and socio-economic justice are concerned.
The bill is seeking to legislate the discrimination of polytechnic graduates from their university counterparts in employment and promotion in the workplace.
Father arrested for raping teenage daughter
47 (Establishment of State Security Council) after it met the requirement of Section 9(2) of the Constitution to Mr President for his assent.
Alhassan Doguwa, a lawmaker from Kano State, currently facing murder trial, has thrown his hat into the ring for the 10th House of Representatives speakership.
“We achieved the international standard for a digital census.
For her vigorous watchdog journalism, Aristegui has been subject to a range of abuses at the hands of the Mexican state and other powerful actors, including smear campaigns and politically motivated firings.
“They have shown confidence in the Nigeria-can-do spirit and have taken concrete steps to help see our Research and Development (R&D) results in Onion and Garlic processing reach their full potential,” he said.
“Sildenafil and tadalafil are phosphodiesterase (PDE-5) inhibitors found in FDA-approved products for the treatment of male erectile dysfunction.
Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party came second with 6,984,520 votes.
“We need to see how we will be able to use what we have to get what we need,” he said, adding that airlines are at the nose of the aviation business and that there is a need to remove all the bottlenecks and constraints to growth.
The kin respect I had for dis man, was almost the kind of respect I had for my stainless father, The Socrates of the Supreme Court.It has finally dawned on me that Soyinka can never be the man Chinua Achebe was.
Mr. President is aware of the fact that APC did not win the election and that it was stolen.
He urged the court to determine the legality of the stated Articles of the Code, the amendments, and the powers of the NBC to impose sanctions especially exorbitant fines particularly in relation to the context of “offensive reference” and “hate speech.”
“For us today, this is a big positive one that happened to avert a major planned attack in the state,” he said.
A chieftain of the Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF), Musa Saidu, says the South-east region of Nigeria cannot get the Senate Presidency of the 10th National Assembly because it “failed to learn from its past mistakes”.
She travelled to the UK alone, intending to stay with another family member.
Mr Gagdi, a member of the APC represents Pankshin/Kanam/Kanke Federal Constituency of Plateau State.
I pray for peace and progress in your tenure.”
A woman activist has accused the newly elected member of the House of Representatives for Ado-Odo/Ota Federal constituency in Ogun State, Tunji Akinosi, of physically attacking her for intervening after his vehicle knocked down a street hawker.
“The Obi-Datti Media office will like to therefore assure all persons of goodwill especially the Obidients that the Rock is not deterred as he is ready to suffer the pain and remain even more determined to pursue whichever path his creator destined for him in Nigeria,” Mr Onifade said.
Last week, a Toyota Hiace bus conveying passengers along that same route was stopped by bandits with two passengers kidnapped in the incident.
Ikechukwu Ani, the head of Press and Public Relations of PSC, announced this in a statement issued on Tuesday in Abuja.
“It was given to us in Foya and Voinjama.”
One of the top contenders in the legal dispute, Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), has urged the Presidential Election Petition Court to allow a live broadcast of the court’s proceedings.
Betara visits family of late Rep-elect, offers scholarship to son
Mr Ani said the meeting treated 43 pending disciplinary matters, appeals and petitions.
Atiku admitted that Mr Tinubu may be a “Titan and a Maestro,” but that the “President-elect is certainly not a titan and maestro in national stature but in controversies such as age, state of origin, identity, educational qualifications represented by certificates obtained from universities and colleges”.
The FRSC boss observed that most night travellers indulge in the overloading of vehicles with passengers and goods.
He insisted that my management of the NPA had to be investigated because of the amount unremitted to the CFR (Consolidated Federation Revenue).
The House had in December 2022 resolved to probe the alleged missing 48 million barrels of crude oil purportedly sold in China by some Nigerian officials.
Mr Ekpa, a Nigerian-Finnish citizen has repeatedly declared sit-at-home orders across the region.
The government must fulfill its promise of rescuing all the girls.”
The police did not provide details of when and how the corps member allegedly committed the offences.
“This rift over roles and powers has regrettably compounded and degenerated into series of litigations.
https://twitter.com/PremiumTimesng/status/1658795920698355714?t=Fx2qUYz5VIcSjhXKdcp_Iw&s=19
Mr Kanu was first arrested in 2015, but was granted bail in April 2017.
Upon sighting police operatives, the third suspect engaged them in a gun duel and, in the process, escaped through the ceiling of his roof with bullet wounds.
In terms of volume, the North-west had the highest number of votes with about 6.6 million votes, followed by the North-central with above 4.5 million votes.
Custodian Investment features on this week’s stock selection for currently trading below its intrinsic value.
“Placing financial interests of traders above the greater public health of the general populace is indeed an expensive mistake that we cannot afford to make.”
According to the advisory, Mr Muoka said in the world of messaging apps, one of the most popular and recognisable is WhatsApp.
She said Mr Akinosi’s black Prado SUV had brushed the hawker and knocked him to the ground.
“Even me, I have not been paid since January and no explanations have been offered,” the assistant director told PREMIUM TIMES.
But at the plenary, the Senate president prayed to God to grant the celebrant long life and prosperity.
It said airports in Khartoum and Darfur’s biggest city Nyala were problematic.
This task was essential to the shared prosperity of all.
“See wetin police dey do for Owerri”.
Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State has appreciated the workers under the auspices of NLC and TUC for the sustained support over the past eight years.
The think tank also said these policy actions or economic reforms must be predicated on inclusion, transparency and accountability.
He commended the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed; the Chairman Board of MOFI, Shamsuddeen Usman, and the entire Executive Team of MOFI for the job well done, three months after inauguration.
Consequently, the collation of the results of the supplementary election is hereby suspended.
It was followed by Akwa Ibom – 30 per cent, Kwara – 30 per cent and Yobe – 30 per cent.
Inspector-General of Police, IGP Usman Alkali Baba, had ordered Seun’s arrest after a video of the musician assaulting a policeman surfaced online.
I also rejoice with those elected into the Senate, House of Representatives and State Houses of Assembly during the last round of elections in states where such took place.
“Reports reaching us indicate that the position of Senate President in the 10th National Assembly has been zoned to the South-south geopolitical zone, while the position of Deputy Senate President would go to the North-west zone.
Recall that Nigerians and the Christian Community took it in good faith when the leadership of APC resorted to the Muslim-Muslim joint ticket in the 9th Assembly.
“So, I had a good laugh when I saw the trending issues regarding just one of my properties in the US.
He said the scheme had also helped in resettling people of various tribes in different parts of the country, exploring entrepreneurship and business opportunities in places, and enabling a new culture of oneness, brotherliness and neighbourliness.
“Two million children in the region are projected to suffer from acute malnutrition, and cases of severe acute malnutrition among children have quadrupled to 700,000.
Mr Shuaib, who was represented by the Incident Manager of the National Polio Emergency Operations Centre (NEOC), Usman Adamu, said the poor quality of care and low levels of trust in the health system arising from misinformation and disinformation are other reasons for the sub-optimal demand of PHC services.
Six bills also scaled first reading including, Federal Road Commission Training Institutions Establishment Bill 2023, National Board for Arabic and Islamic studies Establishment Bill 2023, Federal Medical Centre Ibeji-Lekki, Lagos State Establishment Bill, 2023 among others.
Senate announces new financier of Kaduna-Kano rail modernisation
The coastal area has been hit by heavy storms since Tuesday, and three people have been killed, Italian media reported on Wednesday.
Mr Fashola explained that the contract also covered a distance of about 283.938km.
But there was another point of contradiction in his testimony: He told the court that Mr Massaquoi did not return to Liberia afterwards.
“The dead persons consist of 10 males and two females, and the accident occurred at about 10.am,” she said.
But as I speak to you now, we are still short of that 70 per cent.
“SERAP is seeking an order of mandamus to compel the Attorney General to file action to challenge States’ pension laws for former governors and recover public funds collected by them in the public interest, since the Attorney General has failed/neglected to institute such action.
These have included transition states, as well as innovative and complex cross-border operations.
a. Hajia Sani, Chairperson
JAMB spokesperson Fabian Benjamin, however, said the board would ensure that all candidates willing to register for the DE are registered.
LinkedIn to lay off 716 employees
Three of the evacuees, who sustained injuries, were moved to the hospital.
The drug allegation is part of the grounds on which Atiku anchored his petition challenging Mr Tinubu’s victory at the 25 February presidential election.
“These facts confirm that these budget deficits, funded by new borrowings, have been responsible for the rapid growth in the debt stock and the resultant increases in debt service,” she said.
I also stepped down for him as the deputy senate president, so I stepped down for two of them.”
In the House of Representatives, 325 out of 360 seats have been declared.
• Abiru Mukhail Adetokunbo – Lagos East
I suspect that in this instance we find ourselves on opposite sides of the strategic fence – that is democracy.
Once you upload photos and texts, the wall comes alive.
The editorial begrudgingly credits President Buhari for the “massive success” of pushing through the Petroleum Industry Bill – a staggering achievement attempted but failed by myriad previous administrations – as well as the vast improvements to national infrastructure that have set our country on course for sustainable and equitable growth.
They are Abdulkareem Jamiu (Chief of Staff), Jibril Momoh (Account-General), Yakubu Okala (Auditor-General), Asiwaju Idris (Finance Commissioner), Salami Ozigi (Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs) and Mr Usman-Ododo (Auditor-General for Local Government Areas).
He completed his Erasmus Mundus Masters in 2016 and did his second year of study at the University of Amsterdam.
Mr Bagudu said the visit was ostensibly to say “Happy Sallah” to the president and to thank him for the leadership he had given to the party and the nation.
Meanwhile, Muktar Betara, the Chairman of the House Committee on Appropriation, in a statement on Friday, also congratulated Muslims across the country on completion of the holy month of Ramadan.
“This conversation on forced slavery will tell the story of the heroic deeds of our forebears, while the exhibition will preserve, promote and document this historical monument of our history,” he said.
“Our legal team has been instructed to take appropriate legal actions against Peoples Gazette and others.”
Briefing journalists after the meeting, Mr Makinde said elections are over, and the country must move toward governance.
I just said it, whatever they are making about this is their business.
There are a plethora of petitions challenging the outcome of Nigeria’s 2023 general elections.
That compares with the N2.9 billion paid for the previous year.
This event is a must-visit for anyone who enjoys watching sports.
Even though firms passed on the increased cost to customers, that was done sensitively in order to attract them, leading to the slightest rate of selling price increase in three years.
“The Commission have advised all applicants to visit our Local Government offices where these documents are domiciled for inspection while we work out modalities for inspection of other documents domiciled at the State office in accordance with available spaces but they insisted that the huge volumes of documents like ballot papers be brought to the state office.
The drugmaker’s PE ratio is currently 3.8x, while the EPS is N2.51.
He said English language was a prerequisite for learning, adding that its mastering at all times should be considered pertinent, especially for students and young people, who were the future of the country.
As stated earlier, the ruling party has some sort of religious debt it has to pay.
• Buhari Abdulfatai – Oyo North
“But the circumstances that we found ourselves in after the elections frustrated our desire,” Mr Adamu said, adding that the party’s leadership would revisit the issue in the interest of all.
Sada Soli (APC, Katsina) said the motion is only asking INEC to clean its register ahead of the off-season elections in Kogi, Bayelsa and Imo States.
“At that point the guy confessed he was not injured and some other onlookers crossed over to tell the true story!
I see him as a ‘Lion of Africa’ because of his contributions towards the stability and development of Africa.
Mr Martins said the YPP plans to hold its primaries for Bayelsa, Kogi and Imo governorship elections on 15 April.
“The figures presented here by the Kaduna State Government therefore constitute the most authoritative source of periodic security data on banditry, terrorism, and other incidents in the State,” Mr Aruwan said.
He, however, listed some of the things he said were the achievements of the Buhari administration.
However, empty bags were returned to Mr Fagbewesa at home on 16 February 2020 and on 12 May 2021, HMRC wrote to Mr Fagbewesa seeking information in relation to the seized goods, and noting that they had reason to believe that he had engaged in conduct involving dishonesty.
The command’s Public Relations Officer, Mohammed Jalige, said in a statement on Sunday that the terrorist was killed by officers on routine patrol.
He noted that the act is a foundation of an open system of governance in Nigeria, directly impacting the citizens’ quality of life and upholding civil rights
Recipient of 1986 Ogun State of Nigeria Outstanding Citizen Merit Award
Senate consequently stood down consideration of the 2023 budget of the NDDC for further information and clarification on the figures contained in the budget and set up an ad hoc committee to investigate alleged unauthorised financial activities of NDDC for 2021 and 2022 budget estimates.
“Individuals are required to come with one bag only,” the embassy added.
Idu Igariwey, a ranking PDP member from Ebonyi State, leads the faction that endorsed Mr Abbas.
”As much as I would like to grant the order, by the law, I am constrained and restrained to grant the order.”
The National Agency for Food and Drugs Administration and Control (NAFDAC), on Sunday, warned users/consumers against the use of PrimeZen Black 6000mg, a male performance enhancement capsule recalled from the market.
The police spokesperson in the State, Sanusi Abubakar, told VOA Hausa that the command was yet to receive report of the attack.
Mr Shehu defeated the incumbent member representing the constituency, Aminu Goro of the All Progressive Congress (APC).
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that an FCT Court on Wednesday restrained Mr Abure from parading himself as LP’s chairman.
She was appointed Manager of the Bank’s Financial Technical Services Division in 2008 and held that position through 2010.
Were we really in a Democracy?
“⅔The first task we combated is the issue of funding and sanitising the oil and gas sector; we then proceeded to exit the federal government from joint registrar cash go-funding.
He hurriedly resigned from office in November 2012 to beat a planned impeachment which was masterminded by Mr Akpabio.
10th Assembly Speaker: I’m not Gbajabiamila’s stooge – Aspirant
”Bodies of the deceased have also been buried according to Islamic rights,” he said.
Gunmen have abducted a student of a polytechnic in Enugu State, Nigeria’s south-east.
“I saw the Labour Party vote as a protest against my party (APC) and the PDP.
“The South-east has been denied the chance of producing the president of Nigeria since 1966.
After Sunday’s game against Zambia at the 22,000-capacity Stade Mohamed Hamlaoui, the Eaglets will then take on Morocco and South Africa in other matches in Group B.
The Rivers State governor-elect and other allies of Governor Wike had expressed their fear of possible suspension or expulsion to the court.
How Nigerian fraud suspect allegedly dupes victims in 13 countries – EFCC
Messrs Alabi and Igbakpa stated this on Wednesday while appearing on PT Twitter Space.
The president wished potential corps members all the best as they moved to different parts of the country to share and explore new experiences of the diversity of Nigeria.
The police spokesperson said a preliminary investigation by the police revealed that one of the suspects, Ms Orji, had stolen a child on 24 March, and was arrested while trying to escape with the child.
While reacting to the situation report on the ongoing evacuation, Mr Gbajabiamila expressed dissatisfaction with the attitude of the Egyptians during the evacuation.
“I have demonstrated good faith as a leader with genuine love of workers at heart.
Together, they face an amended 22-count charge of money laundering.
He said with his wealth of experience in the private and public financial sectors, as well as the opportunity of learning from Mr Bello, who he described as a great leader to Kogites, he was well equipped to steer the ship of the confluence state in the desired direction.
Senior Special Assistant to the President, Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, stated this when he briefed State House correspondents on Wednesday after the FEC meeting presided over Vice President Yemi Osinbajo at the Presidential Villa, Abuja.
“I have made my position abundantly clear that there is a need to wait for the Party to complete its zoning exercise as I cannot work against my Party’s interest and position.
The governor, therefore, lauded workers’ commitment whose labour and heroics had powered the economy and brought prosperity to the land.
It states that “(1) Subject to the other provisions of this section, a person shall forfeit forthwith his Nigerian citizenship if, not being a citizen of Nigeria by birth, he acquires or retains the citizenship or nationality of a country, other than Nigeria, of which he is not a citizen by birth.”
Mr Buhari says the army’s fighting power prior to his assumption of office in 2015 was at low ebb.
He added that a mop-up service had been put in place beyond the main phase of evacuation, to bring back any Nigerian who wished to return home.
As the day wore on, we had news of the usual glitches about election materials arriving late, a song that sounded familiar.
On 21 June 2021, the HMRC finally issued a Notice of Assessment to the appellant in the sum of £26,835 pursuant to s 25(1) Finance Act 2003 and s 8(1) Finance Act 1994.
“The situation we are in in Zamfara state now is that we’ve workers who have not been paid their salaries for two months.
It further explained that the baseline forecast, which assumes that the recent financial sector stresses are contained, is for growth to fall from 3.4 per cent in 2022 to 2.8 per cent in 2023, before rising slowly and settling at 3.0 per cent five years out of the lowest medium-term forecast in decades.
Tajudeen Abbas (APC, Kaduna), Aminu Jaji (APC, Zamfara), Ben Kalu (APC, Abia), and Miriam Onuoha (APC, Imo) have also declared interest in the race.
Sharing a picture taken with the veteran actor, Nigerian author and social media influencer, Reno Omokri, said, “signing a copy of my book, Shunpiking: No Shortcuts To God, for Obinna Nwafor, better known as Saint Obi, in my office at Aso Rock Presidential Villa on Wednesday, July 30, 2014.
It also leaves clear traces of manipulation in the video data, so it’s easy to identify as fake.
The commission said the EFCC “erred in law when he struck out the suit as the immunity conferred on the Respondent against any civil or criminal proceedings during his incumbency as a governor of Kogi State does not extend to properties reasonably suspected to be proceeds of crime traced to him”.
Mr Abbas, an aspirant for the speakership of the House of Representatives, said North-west produced almost 26 per cent of the 360 members of the House and gave APC 2.7 million votes in the presidential election.
This is a vital lesson for all concerned.
“Candidates are also advised against going into the examination halls with prohibited items such as wristwatches, calculators, flash drives, phones, among others,” JAMB said.
“I also reiterate my earlier appeal to security agencies.
They also sought an order of mandatory injunction directing the first and second respondents to receive, treat, deal or use the list of elected delegates contained in exhibit E1-E21 for the purpose of conducting the first respondent Kogi governorship primaries on Friday.
Mr Mimiko, who was governor from 2009 to 2017, said this on Thursday while speaking on good governance and accountability at the Dare Adeboye Foundation’s Change and Development Forum.”
The President-elect in his congratulatory statement also praised another illustrious Nigerian, Mr Pate of Harvard T. H. Chan School of Public Health, who is among the appointees, saying his research work did not go unnoticed.
The spokesperson for the Force Headquarters, Muyiwa Adejobi, who disclosed this in a Twitter post on Tuesday evening, uploaded the photo of the three officers on his Twitter page.
“But due to the superior fire power of the policemen, the hoodlums took to their heels.
Similarly, the NBA team visited Mary Peter-Odili, the Chairman of the Body of Benchers.
FCT Police spokesperson, Josephine Adeh, when contacted by PREMIUM TIMES on phone, said she cannot comment on political matters.
Her request was, however, denied in April 1992 by the INS, which then formally terminated her conditional permanent resident status and commenced deportation proceedings.
Italian mountain rescue teams were also on-site to help.
By law, the governor has to give a space of 21 days within which aggrieved parties are required to submit petitions against the process.
FAAN’s statement came against the backdrop of a recent demolition exercise it carried out in Lagos.
The Police Service Commission (PSC) on Sunday commended the Inspector-General of Police, Usman Baba, for ordering the arrest of Seun Kuti for attacking a police officer on duty.
Mr Mutu is to be deputised by Abdulmumini Jibrin, a member-elect on the platform of the NNPP from Kano while Mr Ogene will serve as the secretary.
The group, however, urged him to ensure a “prompt, impartial and effective investigation” that will lead to “substantial justice.”
The programme will bring together journalism students, editors, experts on climate, ocean, and fisheries, and local communities in The Gambia “to examine the ocean and climate issues faced by this West African country, how to report on them and how to drive positive change,” organisers said in a statement.
It symbolizes the triumph of hope over despair, love over hate and condemnation, and optimism over cynicism.
Mr Buhari says the elections saw a remarkable turnout of voters and proof that Nigeria’s democracy is maturing.
Mr Mustapha who represented Kashim Shettima, Nigeria’s president-elect, as chairman of the occasion, said Justice Minister is one of the most “villified” Attorney-General in Nigeria.
That signals the second deepest plunge since the survey started more than nine years ago.
Mr Aduda said globally there are efforts towards the creation of an international market for fossil energy that minimizes gas flaring, methane, and CO2 emissions across the value chain to the fullest extent practicable.
“Happily, this has been addressed by the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration and is now a thing of the past.
It is not the duty of the CAC to determine what happens in an association.
The group said the North-west produced the highest number of votes for the APC during the 25 February presidential polls and the Senate Presidency will help the party consolidate in the zone.
The party said the primary will hold on 14 April, while a special Congress to ratify the candidate will hold on 15 April.
The Nigerian government has accused the IPOB of being responsible for the deadly attacks in the region.
Despite this, says Kaba, government officials generally perceive wildlife crime as low-level, resulting in poor responses compared to offences such as financial crime in the public sector.
“The gun battle between the soldiers and the terrorists took over an hour which led to the death of one soldier while another one sustained serious injuries.
The summit, they said, will feature robust conversations on ways to enhance understanding among policymakers and the general public on the importance of the National Animal Feed Policy, value chain development, National Strategic Feed Reserve and National Alternative Feed Ingredients.
The Hillcrest management filed a petition at the Kwara State Police command, demanding an investigation into the allegations.
“We are at the site of the last unfortunate building collapse in Banana Island Lagos.
“So, I knew from then that we were in for a tough time.
Quoting data from UNICEF, Mr Babatunde said nearly 25 million Nigerians are projected to be at risk of facing hunger between June and August 2023.
For the three months under review, FrieslandCampina WAMCO Nigeria posted a slight drop in revenue to N81.9 billion.
When I do pilgrimage, I send people to Israel and I send people to Mecca because I believe this is the way to go.
“As well as an order striking out or dismissing the petition, same having been withdrawn,” the lawyer said.
*Haruna Tsammani, presiding justice of Abuja Division (63)
It is a day forged and born out of the struggle for workers’ rights and socio-economic justice.
He said the FRSC officers and some security agencies had been on top of the situation since the occurrence of the crash.
“When Obasanjo lost grip of the National Assembly, his first tenure was a failure.
This cost this great country in Africa approximately 800,000 human lives.
“There is no fatality.
But NCC in a statement noted that by the provisions of the Nigerian Communication Act (NCA) 2003 and other extant Laws of the Federation, the commission does not and cannot “track” nor “leak” telephone conversations.
Hudu Yunusa Ari, by the Inspector General of Police.”
The police accused Mr Njoku of forging APGA’s letter-head, which he used to the IGP as the party’s National Chairman, an offence punishable under Section 366 of the Penal Code law.
Atiku and PDP called for a live broadcast of the proceedings of the Presidential Election Petition Court in an application dated 5 May.
The Commissioner of Police in Ebonyi, Faleye Olaleye, according to the statement, described the order as unlawful, and that it cannot stand.
On a year-on-year basis, estimated customers declined by 6.38 per cent in Q3 2022 from 6.32 million in Q3 2021.
“These results were duly certified by the 1st Respondent (INEC) upon the application of the 1st petitioner.
Mr Benjamin said out of the 947,000 candidates who had taken the test since Tuesday only 64,000 have so far experienced hitches “and the board has rescheduled their tests for other sessions.”
A third batch is expected to arrive in another 12 hours.
We are in support of the project.
She expressed confidence in her ability to carry out the responsibilities of the role of deputy speaker and promised to work tirelessly towards achieving the goals and objectives of the assembly.
It added specifically that people living in rat-infested environments, consuming potentially contaminated foodstuff or processing rodents for consumption have higher chances of coming in contact with the infectious disease.
“As chairman of the APC and members of the NWC, we take responsibility, I take responsibility for what has gone on air, and in that spirit, I welcome you to this office on behalf of my colleagues.
It is on record that Governor Samuel Ortom has repeatedly pleaded with the Buhari government to intervene in the incessant invasion of Benue State by Fulani militias.
Fans mourn Nollywood actor, Saint Obi
In 2019, the party again put forward Messrs Lawan and Gbajabiamila for the two top positions.
They include below-market interest rates, grace periods in which the loan recipient is not required to make debt payments for several years, or a combination of low-interest rates and grace periods.
My family and I have sent our cherished mother forth and now it is time to focus on the work at hand.
Apart from that number that has been dispossessed of their lives, about 4,200 more have either been maimed, injured or totally immobilized, with claims that these figures may be a far cry from the actual reality on ground.
It added that the consequential adjustment of the minimum wage has been finalised and is about to be paid.
That will be unconstitutional.
The late Mbadinuju served as the governor of Anambra State between 29 May 1999 and 29 May 2003 under the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).
He said the service had deployed MIDAS technology, which was used to monitor what was happening at the borders.
FRSC returns N27.1 million recovered from accident scene to victim’s family – Official
“They served us notice just about three days, and today they are here to demolish our buildings,” he said.
He inflicted bodily harm on her, which earned him a 12-month imprisonment.
He said the centre is the only UTME centre in the old Eastern Region of Nigeria.
“The military high command commends troops and encourages the public to avail troops with credible and timely information on terrorist and all criminal activities within their area,” he said.
Anything he may require of me to make his government successful, in my personal capacity, I will willingly do.
The Nigeria Police Force (NPF) has launched a rejuvenated digitalised Central Motor Registry (CMR) Information Service to curb the menace of car theft in the country.
“Cloudy atmosphere with intervals of sunshine is anticipated over the North-central region with prospects of thunderstorms over parts of the Federal Capital Territory, Nasarawa, and Plateau state during the afternoon and evening hours.
The Senatorial elections will be held in the North-western states of Sokoto, Kebbi and Zamfara.
Mr Ekwo, in his judgement, said since the Appeal Court’s verdicts which held that governors cannot forfeit their seats on the grounds of defection had not been set aside by the Supreme Court, they remained the law and binding on lower courts.
“Avoid unnecessary technicalities, we are determined to look at all the matters brought before us.
They stay with me and I don’t trust my husband because he chases everything in skirt.
This development shows a crack in the minority caucus as the members held two meetings simultaneously at different venues on Monday.
Stanley is a student of the Institute of Management and Technology, Enugu, a state-owned polytechnic in the south-eastern state.
“This is the most significant governmental fraud to have ever been activated in Africa because apart from being opaque, it is also characterised by absolutely falsehoods, especially in the so-called school-feeding programme whereby pupils are fed with poor foods.
Apart from the hospital, the governor-elect listed other areas where the outgoing administration allegedly carried out lootings including the School of Health Technology Aba, Abia State Universal Basic Education Board, School of Nursing Amachara, and Abia State Government Umuahia, where choice cars, brand news buses and sports utility vehicles acquired with the public, were reportedly removed.
This was made known through a statement signed by his eldest son, Segun Ajibola, on Sunday in Abeokuta.
A palace staffer in Ile-Ife, who said he has no authority to speak on the matter, said the building was burnt to the ground.
INEC fixed 15 April for the conduct of supplementary elections across Nigeria.
The suspect had been maltreating his three children, aged 16, 17 and 18, since his marriage to their mother, Busola Otusegun, crashed.
What people need to understand is to go and look at the pedigree and the antecedent of every member, the issue of being rubber stamp is neither here nor there,” Mr Abbas said.
The INEC has admitted that its system suffered unanticipated glitches on that day which made it impossible for it to upload the polling units results of the presidential elections on its portal immediately as promised but it began to do so once the technical hitches had been resolved.
”The petitioners’ paragraph 146 in support of ground four on non-qualification is vague, bare and meaningless as having the constitutional threshold is not part of the requirement to contest any election,” the APC said.
“Despite the current challenge of the state government with its bankers, Dr Governor Okezie Victor Ikpeazu has directed the office of the accountant-general to commence payment of salaries to ministries and parastatals from today, Friday 12th May 2023,” the statement said.
“But we need to ensure that all countries continue to close this gap to recover health services, and apply lessons learnt to build more prepared and resilient health systems for the future”.
That is more than 50,000 women dying per year in Nigeria.
“The clear implication of the above is that provided the suit is predicated on enforcement of fundamental rights, lack of locus standi will not impede its progress,” Mr Omotosho said.
It said it was necessary to find out the nation’s capacity to accommodate the demands.
It is the contention of the prosecution that the “Court of Appeal acted without jurisdiction when they entertained” Mr Kanu’s “appeal, the said decision of the Trial Court having been made without jurisdiction in breach of section 396 (2) of” the ACJA.
Mr Umar appealed “to the Chinese government to give 10 years or a minimum of five years visas to Nigerians” to deepen their trade relationship.
The late prelate had his primary school education at Salvation Army School, Akai Ubium, Eket and Methodist Boys High School, Oron, Oron Local Government Area, Akwa Ibom State, for his secondary education.
Wouldn’t her fellow Obidients not have pulled down the sky on- and offline?
The petitioners had challenged the outcome of the 18 March governorship Election in Lagos State in which the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) declared Mr Sanwo-Olu the winner.
The supplementary elections according to the commissioner will hold in the federal constituencies of Fagge, Tudun Wada / Doguwa House of Representatives.
Mpox continues to pose significant public health challenges that need a robust, proactive and sustainable response,” he said.
Hopefully, we shall inaugurate the one in Kano a few days before our departure.
People who have not been evacuated were told to take shelter on higher floors of buildings, for example.
Other demands include: “The immediate massive recruitment of clinical staff in the hospitals and the complete abolishment of bureaucratic limitations to the immediate replacement of doctors who leave the system.
Nigerian govt warns doctors against planned strike commencing today
He urged residents of the South-east to return to their operations on Mondays and ignore the declarations by the “agents of provocateurs” who carry out attacks in the region to blackmail the group.
Therefore, I say to those who still choose to live by it, I wish them well on a journey to the unknown from an unknown destination.
He stated that the TUC would work with the incoming governor-elect, Sim Fubara, to move the state forward in development.
Mr Lauwerier said funding shortfalls and underinvestment in primary healthcare can devastate survival prospects.
These are public assets, our commonwealth and are required to be protected, not plundered as spoils of war,” he stated.
Meanwhile, fans and colleagues of the actor have been sending in their condolences.
He listed the five to include himself, Mr Betara, Sada Soli, Alhassan Doguwa and Ahmed Jaji.
EX-NNPC chief Yakubu sues EFCC, CBN, GTB, wants seized $9.8 million released
Mr Gambo said: “This is the same land they have been trying to acquire since 2015.
Buhari felicitates Nigerian media on World Press Freedom Day
So what are you now saying that the whole protocol list of Nigeria will finish and there will be no woman in an Asiwaju government?
He said this comprehensive approach to primary healthcare demonstrates a concerted effort to ensure critical healthcare services are available at the grassroots level.
Mr Buhari affirmed that the scheme must be sustained, with a constant reminder of the history, structure and purpose that should not be abused, trivialised or undermined.
I got what I wanted and will quietly retire to my home town.
Founded in 2014, the Centre for Journalism Innovation and Development (CJID), formerly the Premium Times Centre for Investigative Journalism (PTCIJ), is a West African media innovation and development think (and do) tank.
The NBA regular season ends after 82 games.
The command’s Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, confirmed this in a statement issued in Abeokuta on Sunday.
“Only by working together, can we successfully tackle the issues that confront our nation.
At least eight people died in the attack while 168 people were declared missing, most of whom were believed to have been kidnapped.
An army official says the retired colonel was occupying the house illegally.
He was handed the BOR 1422 by the member of British Airways staff who had alerted him to the bags and he matched the bags to the details on the BOR 1422.
President Buhari prayed for the repose of his soul and the courage to bear the loss on the part of those he left behind in the family, as well as the government and people of Kaduna State.
“The operatives during the gun duel with the criminals, neutralised two of the gang members, while two others escaped,” he said, adding that the operatives were making effort to track down the fleeing suspects.
They are Mr Kyari, ACP Sunday Ubia, Insp Simon Agirigba and Insp John Nuhu.
This freed the federal government from the shoes of funding the oil sector.
“The Disability Act says five per cent of all employees should be reserved for persons with disabilities.
‘‘In 2022, African startups raised a record of $5.4 Billion in funding,’’ Mr Buhari was quoted in the statement as saying.
This, he said, could be achieved by keeping a focus on the larger picture: ”Nigeria’s unity is a process and a collective responsibility that must not be negotiated.”
“From the onset, registration of farmers in the forest is not the same as conferment of ownership.
Chairman of the Police Service Commission, Solomon Arase, said the new posting of the commissioners was a call for greater commitment, innovation and loyalty to the Nigerian nation.
She said the idea was to combat violent crimes in the FCT, rescue victims and bring perpetrators to book.
“This change in buying patterns also led to an increase in prices in the outskirt markets.
UPDATED: NNPP withdraws petition against Governor Abiodun’s reelection
“We must continue to deepen our democracy and continue to provide the electoral ambience conducive for free, fair, transparent and inclusive elections.
“It has happened in front of our house.
Based on the reasons given and the absence of objection from the HM Revenue and Customs, a non-ministerial department of the UK Government responsible for the collection of taxes, the court decided to admit the appeal late.
PREMIUM TIMES reported that the committee summoned Mr Malami and the Minister of Finance, Zainab Ahmed.
Something I have never seen before.”
The Nigerian government has raised some trade concerns with the government of the Republic of China over allegations bordering on importation of ‘substandard products’ to Africa and Nigeria in particular, as against what is reportedly exported to developed nations.
He helped us in Guinea and I will never forget that.
“While the Office of the Attorney General of the Federation /Minister for Justice is yet to receive a formal copy of the ruling, the President affirms that due judicial process will be followed, and NNPCL has already taken steps to go on appeal,” Femi Adesina, a presidential spokesperson wrote.
INEC said this in a statement by its National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye, in Abuja on Tuesday.
The prosecution presented four witnesses and tendered several pieces of evidence during the trial, while Mr Agu testified as a sole witness for the defence.
Collation of results resumes in Adamawa
“That I said I killed Onyechi Ikpeazu’s daughter; that I said he will die, that I said I am a very dangerous man; that he has gone and brought the police to arrest me and face charges,” he said.
“There must be a fair hearing before we take a position.
Second, many banks’ emails and social media posts have warned customers that no official would request their private banking or card details.
“As I said before it’s not just about improving the budget, it’s about making sure the budget is released and when the budget is released, it is making sure that 80 per cent of it goes to the primary care level where 80 per cent of the communities get first contact with health care services,” he said.
The coordinator said the visually-impaired candidates take the same UTME examination questions in the computer-based tests taken by candidates without visually-impairment.
As you may be aware, churches, mosques or religious organisations, non-governmental organisations as well as other entities in which the Nigerian people practise their freedom of thought, conscience and religion are through incorporated trustees.
Mr Obi, as Labour Party candidate, came third in the 25 February presidential election.
The abductors are demanding N50 million ransom.
Mr Echeng, during the Friday press conference, confirmed that Mr Emeh was still in police custody.
Mr Tinubu during his presidential campaign rally in Rivers State paid a visit to Mr Wike in Government House in Port Harcourt where the governor bragged that APC candidates in the state would not win the election and advised Mr Tinubu against investing in them (APC candidates).
Honorary Award of Fellow of the Nigerian Institute of Advanced Legal Studies
“INEC immediately set up a technical team to look into what went wrong and simultaneously floated another platform,” he said.
So although they lost a governor they got a federal appointment”, she clarified.
Read below Mr Soyinka’s statement:
JAMB’s spokesperson, Fabian Benjamin, gave the directive in a statement issued on Tuesday.
She also said that her phone and neck chain were forcefully taken from her.
PREMIUM TIMES reported the ongoing probe of Mr Akpabio by the anti-graft agency, EFCC, for allegedly stealing state funds while he was Akwa Ibom governor.
“To also ensure that the media enabled to play its constitutional role as the watchdog of the society including the government”
The child has since been rescued, he said.
According to him, the elder statesman was released due to sustained pressure mounted on the kidnappers by a combined team of security agencies.
EXCLUSIVE: Why Buhari sacked Saratu Umar as NIPC boss
They resolved that INEC should develop a mechanism or software application where families who lost their loved ones can report the demise of a particular PVC number so that it can be duly deleted from INEC register, Polling unit, and Ward.
The incoming 10th National Assembly should not be written off but it appears as the most polarised Assembly with an unprecedented 8 political parties in the hallowed chambers operating over a divided nation.
The primary 3D radar (RPA-200MC) supplied by INVAP is the first export of its kind between Argentina and any African country.
Mr Ekwo observed that it was averred that it was after Mr amu declined SSS’ medical services that he was taken to Arewa Specialist Hospital and Diagnostic Center, Jabi by the security outfit.
The president gave the approval after meeting with some members of the Federal Executive Council and the Chairman of the National Population Commission and his team at the Presidential Villa in Abuja on Friday (28 April 2023).
“I believe the doctors are not happy to go on strike, but they did it for a reason.
“As a nation, we have gone through an election that has produced the next set of leaders at the Federal and State levels.
It will benefit at least 10.2 million poor and vulnerable Nigerian households (in rural and urban poor areas) by way of targeted cash transfers to cushion the effects of existing social and economic shocks (Covid, inflation, naira redesign cash crunch, flood losses etc) including the anticipated petrol subsidy removal.
Mr Yari is one of the aspirants contesting for the office but the All Progressives Congress (APC) had nominated a former governor of Akwa Ibom State, Godswill Akpabio, for the position and the senator Representing Kano North District, Barau Jibirin, as Deputy Senate President.
While some Nigerians lauded the move, many others expressed concerns about the actual cost of the vehicles.
He explained that a party with the majority is expected to produce presiding officers.
“These policy measures failed to reckon with the multifarious challenges which industry operators are currently grappling with, some of which include the following.
“At the beginning of the 21st Century, Israel was the only country in the world to have successfully reduced the amount of desert within its borders.
The GIANT called NIGERIA must rise, and never fall again!
Subsequently, an Abuja High Court restrained Mr Abure from parading himself as the party’s national chairman.
He is the man who made it possible that I even got the party ticket in the first place.
In a counterargument, the Nigerian government’s counsel, I.I.
Microsoft-owned LinkedIn has announced a plan to cut 716 jobs globally in the latest round of big tech layoffs.
“Where you have a mistake committed, whether deliberately or otherwise by an individual, that should not be extended to the institution.
Meanwhile, Labour Party’s presidential candidate, Peter Obi, arrived the Court after the inaugural session.
I wish you all very happy Easter celebrations.
At least 98 of the 276 abducted school girls are reportedly still in captivity and school abductions have lingered on over the years in Nigeria.
The flying Antelope scored first with a 13th minute strike from Onyemachi Austin but 10 minutes later, Kufre Ebong restored parity for Dakkada with a header to Ifeanyi Assurance’s freekick.
Juliet Ibekaku-Nwagwu – ALTERNATE CHAIRMAN
The organisation, which says it is concerned with the protection and promotion of human rights, maintained in its suit that the NBC Code is used to suppress the right of citizens to freedom of expression.
He, therefore, urged the IGP to ensure that the Adamawa REC “face the full wrath of the law for his conduct.”
“The entire proceedings of the tribunal remain a nullity,” the Supreme Court held.
Prior to his appointment, he was a lecturer at the University of Agriculture, Makurdi.
Despite harsh economic conditions, African stakeholders are increasingly bullish about what they have to offer the world, and can pick from a range of suitors.
Consequently, the House set up an ad hoc committee to investigate the accruals into the fund and its utilisation by the NCC since its inception.
The governor-elect was represented by a former commissioner for information in the state, Chris Abasi-Eyo.
In the 2000s, ICIL and companies linked to it paid out hundreds of thousands of dollars to senior Nigerian officials, including army generals, according to Cahill’s court testimony.
His interest in the company now totals 4 million shares, having acquired 3.7 million shares earlier this year at N809.2 million.
The new report shared with PREMIUM TIMES in a press release on Wednesday added that only three out of the 36 Attorneys-General of the various states are women.
Mr Buhari accepted the request of the president of the Sahrawi Republic to participate in the inaugural events ushering in the new Nigerian president in May.
Others like Aliyu Wammako and Kabiru Marafa may also join the race if they emerge winners after the supplementary elections in Sokoto and Zamfara respectively.
In the presidential election, the APC could only win Zamfara and Jigawa out of the seven states in the region.
“I am not sure that (snatching of phone) strictly may amount to robbery, even though the person has taken the law into his hands,” Mr Effiong said.
Organ Trafficking: Senate asks UK Govt to pardon Ekweremadu
The professor said: “The collaboration is a climate-smart sustainable commercial indigenous goat and sheep production franchise.
The group, in a letter to the NBA President, dated 20 April, said Mr Ari’s declaration of a candidate as governor-elect in the Adamawa State supplementary elections without final collation of results was “in total disregard for the laws in Nigeria”.
The clash has continued despite the deployment of police to the area.
The National Publicity Secretary of PDP, Debo Ologunagba, said this in a statement on Monday to celebrate Worker’s Day.
In most cases, the IMF said governments should aim for an overall tight stance while providing targeted support to those struggling most with the cost-of-living crisis.
We are not unmindful of the other powers we have and we are not afraid to exert them and we will do so if the leeway we have provided is still neglected and not recognized by the honourable Minister of Finance,” the lawmaker said.
He made the call during the induction of the first batch of new representatives on Tuesday in Abuja.
LP called on the police, the State Security Services (SSS) and anti-graft agencies to quickly apprehend and question the party’s ex-officials involved in the letter before they succeeded in igniting the nation.
The court’s decision threw Pretoria into a panic as Putin is due to visit South Africa in August for the BRICS summit (with Brazil, Russia, India and China).
In a press statement Tuesday, the bank said the new appointee is a seasoned senior executive with close to 31 years of experience delivering technical, managerial, and strategic knowledge and leadership in capital markets, treasury, asset management, and product development at the bank.
PREMIUM TIMES reported the herculean task Binani faces after the main election as she trailed Mr Fintiri with over 30,000 votes, and needed about 90 per cent of the votes cast in the rerun election held Saturday.
I canvassed for 7,000 outstanding votes and at the end the people said this man remains our ambassador.”
“No change in the overall policy direction regarding the petrol subsidy is envisaged by June 2023,” it said.
The NCC was expected to have submitted the required documents on 9 May, to enable the committee to analyse them during its next hearing which was held today.
Mrs Egberoungbe, however, commended the centre for recording no technical hitch and for what she described as a coordinated process.
Betara who doubles as Chairman, House Committee on Appropriations, has proved to the world that he is capable of leading the over 300 lawmakers.
The evil men on the streets are not the disease afflicting our nation.
According to APC, Paragraphs 60 — 77 of the petition are non-specific, vague and/or nebulous and thereby incompetent contrary to Paragraph 4(1)(d) of the Ist Schedule to the Electoral Act, 2022.
They provided logistics support like Nigeria Immigration Service, Dangote Foundation, MTN, and Hajia Asmau Yerima Mohammed who represented the Association of Parents and Guardian of Students in Sudan.
In a diverse society such as ours, democratic competition is intensified by the sociocultural cleavages that exist in society.
But the EFCC, in a notice of preliminary objection, prayed the court to dismiss Mr Yakubu’s application.
Mr Odimegwu said the WED was a platform to further send the message of the desire of the Soludo administration to evolve a healthy and sustainable environment, noting that the governor had personally shown examples through desilting and tree-planting activities.
She promised to work with the executive arm and the president-elect, Bola Tinubu if she is elected by her colleagues.
Their parents were not aware of their arraignment.
The allegation of Tinubu’s citizenship has also been featured at the Presidential Election Petition Court in Abuja, where Mr Tinubu’s victory at the 25 February presidential election is being challenged.
Is it not a shame that the security agents would come out and say they have the names of people that have muted this type of government in this country, you will not arrest and prosecute them
Mr Adejobi said the redeployment was in line with the IGP’s mandate and strategies to strengthen the operational structures of commands, departments and formations.
Buhari departs Abuja for Ghana Tuesday
A rerun election was held on Saturday in 142 polling units spread across 20 of the 21 Local Government Areas of the state.
And you can see today that even as a co-contestant, I had to honour the invitation of a male contestant.
The judge said that the court heard evidence from Mr Curtis, a border control officer, regarding the discovery and seizure of the cigarettes.
Mr Muraina assured that the NGOs in Kogi would continue to put professionalism into play in such cases to ensure that the right of the girl-child was protected and get justice for her.
The House consequently ordered the withdrawal of letters given to government appointees whose nominations should have been sent to the House for screening and confirmation, but who took up the jobs without the due process.
I’ve no fears about our democracy – Buhari
The National Working Committee of APC had nominated Messrs Akpabio and Tajudeen as Senate President and House speaker for the 10th National Assembly.
According to him, since 2000, access to essential services has increased significantly, but at least half the world’s population still lacks access to one or more services like family planning, basic sanitation, or access to a health worker.
Apart from killings, kidnap for ransom and attacks by suspected arsonists have also been on the increase in the state.
Although they did not name the two candidates allegedly involved in the bribery scheme, they suggested the two candidates are members of the APC.
According to him, the contracts covering four different roads in Kwara, is covered by Executive Order 7 which promotes investments in public infrastructure, especially roads.
He described the existing rift between the two organisations as embarrassing, saying it was fuelled largely because of misconceptions and suspicion.
“Since I took over under a very hostile environment, I have remained committed to that goal of workers’ first.
My point was to say be what you say you are.
“He inherited the hatred (Muhammadu) Buhari has against Igbo, especially when the President-elect has said he will continue from where the incumbent president stopped,” Mr Okeke-Ogene was quoted as saying.
The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila on Tuesday met with members-elect amid growing opposition to Tajudeen Abbas as the preferred choice of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the speakership of the 10th House.
“Betara who currently chairs the House of Representatives Appropriation Committee, had earlier exchanged warm pleasantries with the incoming Commander-in-Chief shortly after having some photo sessions.
It is not authoritarian.
Some of the runners-up of the contest have already submitted petitions to the courts protesting the emergence of Mr Tinubu as the winner of the election.
Disagreeing with the outcome of the result, Mr Obi and his party, LP, filed a petition challenging the victory.
“Troops recovered 15 rounds of 7.62mm special, eight mobile phones, 105 wraps of substances suspected to be cannabis, 1,032 tablets of tramadol and the sum of N82,800.
Mr Wada, a medical health worker at the state-owned Farida General Hospital, told the policeman that he was not there to collect anything but to place an order.
The agency envisaged thunderstorms over the entire region later in the day.
“For obvious reasons, some CBT centres mismatched the data of some candidates they registered.
According to him, the DIG was the Head, Anti-Fraud, FCT Command; Commissioner of Police in Kwara State amongst others and was until his recent promotion, the AIG in charge of Zone 7, Abuja, comprising the FCT and Niger.
He added that the phased orientation exercises would enable the intending pilgrims to get enlightened on the Hajj rites as well as guidelines and new policies introduced for this year’s Hajj by the Saudi authorities and the National Hajj Commission of Nigeria (NAHCON).
The incumbent president of the association and 31st in line, Yakubu Maikyau, urged both the Inspector-General of Police and the police commissioner in Rivers State “to leave no stone unturned as they work towards the safe release of our dear learned friend”.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the SSS, on 21 March, arraigned Mr Mamu on 10 counts of terrorism financing, among others.
The report, “The World Development Report 2023: Migrants, Refugees, and Societies”, released on Tuesday, found that low-skilled workers who move from a society with high socioeconomic inequalities to a country with fewer inequalities and a lower wage gap between low and high-skilled workers earned higher earnings.
Earlier, the President of IPI Nigeria, Musikilu Mojeed, said the committees were constituted to enhance the work of the organisation, bring in more inclusiveness and more buy-in of the work IPI Nigeria does.
“We need to open the operations of the House of Representatives to the Nigerian people so that they understand why we exist and why it is worthwhile to expend scarce resources on our operations,” he said.
But Moses Paul, the convener of the Free Nigeria Movement, a coalition of groups canvassing the cancellation of the presidential poll, wondered why Mr Soyinka kept mum when other politicians made incendiary comments.
The upper legislative chamber urged the UK government to facilitate soft sentencing conditions for the lawmaker.
Charles’ second wife Camilla, 75, will be crowned queen during the two-hour ceremony, which while rooted in history, is also an attempt to present a forward-looking monarchy, with those involved in the service reflecting a more diverse Britain and leaders from all faiths.
Earlier on 2 May, the presiding judge, Ms Atoki, had informed both parties of a change in the panel of judges following the replacement of two judges whose tenure in the court had ended.
The boy pointed at Romanus’ son (Mr Asadu) as one of the gang members that killed the vigilante operatives in Igbo-Ukwu here,” Mr Victor said.
The Nigerian Army on Friday completed pre-deployment training for 197 troops for a peace-keeping mission in Gambia.
“Apart from that, we are also reaching out to MDAs and National Assembly to seek intervention on how we are going to holistically address these problems of accommodation in the Nigeria Police Force,” he said.
Nigerians are reconciled with Shakespeare’s conclusion that when avoidable sorrows and misfortunes are visited on a nation, “they come not single spies.
It is also the brainchild of the commission’s Chairman, Solomon Arase, a former Inspector General of Police.
“Among the PDP leaders illegally invited by the Inspector General of Police are Alhaji Garba Ahmad Yandi, Alhaji Kabiru Ahmadu; Alhaji Yusuf Daha Tsafe; Alhaji Ibrahim Modibbo; Alhaji Zahradeen Ibrahim; Alhaji Musa Mallaha; Alhaji Sambo A. Sambo; Hajiya Lubnah Baba Gusau and many others,” the statement added.
Governor Ortom is performing his duty as Governor of Benue State and will continue to do so until May 29, 2023 when he leaves office.
According to the WHO interim report released on Tuesday, countries are said to be experiencing reduced disruptions in the delivery of routine health services by early 2023 but emphasised the need to invest in recovery and stronger resilience for the future.
“I make this offer to serve you and the Nigerian people with sincerity of heart, humility and candour.
FEC approves N3.4bn for Abuja Airport second runway,  N449.9m for masterplan of 17 airports
He said the retired colonel was ejected last year from the apartment, but he refused to leave, stressing that the army would not accept anybody attempting to acquire its property illegally.
They are essential to awakening informed debate within public opinion, crucial to opening up investigations by journalists and necessary for questioning decision-makers,” it added.
When asked about his reaction to the opinions of other lawyers in court, Mr Joseph said “There is a doctrine of state privilege in the interest of national security.”
The question is, as a lawmaker-elect, are we not entitled to some rights too or does it deprive us of being a Nigerian?.
The petitioners indicated that the collation officer for Ward 4 was absent from the state assembly collation centre and provided what they considered to be the reasons for it.
“Today, we have gone to Kogi to arrest a notorious kidnapper, Danger, and he is now in our custody.”
WHO Director General, Tedros Ghebreyesus, made the announcement Thursday at a press briefing in Geneva following an emergency committee meeting.
Nowhere has this been more evident than in the effrontery of attempts to place the present contention on the same podium as the twenty-year old anti-Abacha struggle!
It is in this regard that I salute the courage of the Speakership aspirants for their show of solidarity, companionship and applaudable love for the Party in their rejection, resentment and objection to the brazenly teleguided zoning arrangement that is skewed and targeted against some zones and identified individuals.
Several members of the party have joined the joint-task coalition – a group of lawmakers that have committed to working with the ruling party on zoning.
“This will require a more granular understanding of who is missing out, why they are vulnerable, and what are their barriers to accessing malaria preventive and treatment services,” he said.
He noted that suggestions that security agents should arrest promoters of the interim government could have political consequences.
It was established by the Federal Revenue Act 1973 (1973 No.13) and began with four judges with a president as its head.
Mr Babafemi said the drugs weighing 63 kilogrammes were concealed in a used Toyota Corolla car imported from Canada.
Responding to Atiku and PDP’s claims of corrupt practices by INEC, Mr Tinubu and the APC during the presidential election, Mr Tinubu said, “the facts pleaded in support of the allegations of corrupt practices…are at variance with the said ground.”
He Adejobi said the IGP was thinking outside the box to see how the problems at the barracks could be adequately addressed.
“We have a number of challenges.
He did not, however, mention the officers’ names and their ranks.
Mr Lalong in a statement signed by his director of press and public affairs, Makut Simon, said he was seriously disturbed about the tragic incident.
An attempt to boil the ocean or eat an elephant whole was never part of the plan.
For decades, we were told that because of various vested interests, it would be nearly impossible to pass the bill but we made it happen,” Mr Buhari said.
“We think that it will overstretch that company and because it would overstretch them, they will not be able to cope; they may not have the capacity to cope.
A man and his wife reportedly abducted while returning from a vigil in the early hours of Saturday have escaped from their abductors, the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) learnt.
“The government should also accelerate the growth in revenues to ensure debt sustainability,” she said.
The police spokesperson said two AK 47 rifles and one other rifle as well as two vehicles, including that of the victim, were recovered.
According to him, the committee includes internationally-recognised technocrats, good governance, transparency and accountability advocates, financial and management experts, entrepreneurs, as well as tech and innovation specialists.
She said the Joint Review Committee concluded that the data on the R21 Malaria vaccine were robust and met the criteria for efficacy, safety, and quality.
“It is unfortunate that despite our various sensitisation and awareness programmes towards curbing trafficking and usage of illicit drugs, the situation persists.
House Speaker: Doguwa, two others drop out, back Abbas
In another count, the police accused the defendants of fabricating “a letter to the Inspector-General of Police under false pretence that” Mr Njoku is APGA’s National Chairman, an offence punishable under Section 178 of the Penal Code Law.
The APC in Benue had on Wednesday announced the suspension of Mr Gemade and others for alleged anti-party activities.
World Health Day is marked on 7 April annually to draw attention to specific health topics of concern globally.
South Africa to exit ICC – President Ramaphosa
Written by Femi Osofisan, the play tells a tale of a test of kindness, compassion, greed, conspiracy, corruption and the triumph of good over evil.
There are four former presidents of the association in-between him and the incumbent, Mr Maikyau, who took over last year as the 31st.
He also accused NSPM of sabotaging the effort of the company in the production of the booklets.
“Progress against malaria and TB has stalled, antimicrobial resistance threatens to unwind a century of medical progress.
“As an administration, we have demonstrated commitment to increase the strength of the armed forces in my resolve to secure the country against all challenges.
In his remarks, the minister emphasised that the summit aligns with the aspirations and agenda of the Nigerian government to improve the animal feed sub-sector by focusing on the development of a national animal feed policy, feed value chain, feed quality control and safety, National Strategic Feed Reserve amongst others.
Many of them are facing hardship due to non-payment of their salaries despite pleas through protests made to the relevant authorities.
“For me and our people from the South-east, we are still very strong in contesting for the office of the senate president of Nigeria for the 10th senate.
“I went to the U.S. to balance the skewed report about the just concluded elections; and everywhere I went, I said very unambiguously that the last general elections in Nigeria are the most transparent.
The judge, Inyang Ekwo, refused to grant the request on the grounds that similar suits were voided by the Court of Appeal in several judgments.
The Washington-based lender in its “World Economic Outlook: A Rocky Recovery 2023 APR” released on Tuesday also projected that the country’s economy would grow at 3.0 per cent in 2024.
He added that the troops also recovered one outboard engine, two generators and one speed boat, and apprehended 26 suspected criminals during the period.
The treasonable felony and terrorism charges related to Mr Kanu’s campaigns for the secession of South-east Nigeria and other neighbouring places as the independent Republic of Biafra.
Meanwhile, in 2021 and 2022, the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) arrested about 24,000 drug traffickers, including 29 barons.
At the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH), Ikeja, patients confirmed they are being attended to swiftly despite the ongoing strike.
The exercise was earlier scheduled for 3-7 May.
“I implore you to remain focused and committed throughout your tour of duty in the Gambia.”
Consequently, the collation of results of the supplementary election is hereby suspended,” Mr Okoye added.
Currently, Nigeria operates the National Minimum Wage structure.
He stated further that the hoodlums not only obstructed the officers from discharging their duties but also aided the escape of the SUV and its occupants.
We are from the same subregion, we are from the same state and I have the best relationship with him.
Earlier, in a joint address, the State NLC Chairman, Goodluck Ofoburuku, and Martins Bolum of the TUC, lauded the Okowa-led government for workers’ welfare, human capital and infrastructure development.
But indeed, the Sudanese crisis isn’t strictly the subject of this piece.
Similarly, Obiora Okwuibe the convener of #JusticeforDonsUdeh, said the community was yet to heal from the kidnap of one of their traditional rulers from Ozalla Etiti to be faced with this.
Mr Achimugu, who claimed to be a former aide of Atiku, in a series of social media posts, accused Atiku of using Special Purpose Vehicles (SPV) to commit financial fraud.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Siminlalayi Fubara, Rivers PDP governor-elect and his deputy, Ngozi Odu, who were backed by Mr Wike in the 18 March governors election, had sued the party and its executives over alleged plan to suspend or expel them over their association with the outgoing governor.
She said “We also have to raise more resources to enable us do more than just the cash transfers and also in our engagements with the various stakeholders.
He said those who are accusing Atiku Abubakar, the presidential candidate of PDP of “forcing” him on Kogi people were being unfair to him (Melaye).
“To our members and supporters across the State, I urge you all to accept the verdict of the Court and move on.
Ruling on the application today, Justice Aneke granted the EFCC’s prayers and also ordered the final forfeiture of the properties to the Federal Government.
He told reporters that his administration will improve infrastructural development and strengthen the economy of the state.
“You will agree with me that sustained energy sufficiency directly enables economic growth and development as can be seen in the history of developed countries.
“We are happy with this judgment and wish justice will be rightly dispensed in all cases of electoral frauds in the just-concluded general elections.”
Terrorists abduct district head in Zamfara
Ms Keisha told NAN that the service lane of the deck on the pile bridge was damaged and caved in due to the activities of vandals.
The police insists only nine residents were abducted.
Nigerian fined £26,835 for smuggling cigarettes into London
“……You’ve made history in electing the first female governor in our dear country, Nigeria.
This is not a time to be complacent.
“Therefore, by the provision of the APC constitution, El`Sudi ceased to function as chairman since Feb. 10 and has no legal right to suspend or expel any member from the party.
‘‘It is worth noting the remarkable growth of start-ups worldwide, with over US$400 Billion of venture funding accessed in 2022.
“In the Nigeria, I shall have the honour and privilege to lead from May 29, workers will have more than a minimum wage.
The police last week said Ifasoji Ayangbesan was arrested after officers turned down a bribe of N1 million that he offered them.
Senate resolution was sequel to the adoption of a motion on the ”Delay on issuance , renewal of Nigeria International Passport” by the Nigerian Immigration Services at Plenary on Tuesday.
He said some states like Nasarawa have vaccinated 100 per cent of the population, noting that FCT has only vaccinated about 50 per cent of its eligible population against the virus.
“Having been charged by the Federal Ministry of Education to produce the best of Nigeria and project them as Team Nigeria at international stages, we aim to bring out the very best wordsmiths and readers to make Nigeria proud.
There have been relentless mass killings of mostly rural dwellers by armed herders since 2016 in the north-central state, leading to displacement of over two million people, according to the state government.
The station was razed down at the weekend following an attack on security agencies stationed in the community as a peacekeeping force.
The Minister of Justice and Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, has described the alleged “illegal sales of 48 million barrels of crude oil” as baseless and lacking in merit.
“We want you to break the jinx of Plateau governors always leaving a backlog of salaries before their exit to the incoming governors,” he said.
As a result of the non-exhaustion of administrative remedies by Ms Brooks, the court said it lacked jurisdiction to consider her appeal for review.
Maybe the president-elect and leadership of the party will feel, okay.
She added that two other employees were also injured in the same incident.
“Nigeria in September 2020 successfully completed the upload of more than 150,000 stolen and lost travel documents to the Interpol Database, ” he said.
Despite the shortage of medical personnel in the country, Nigeria continues to experience a mass exodus of healthcare professionals, especially doctors, pharmacists, and nurses.
The statement said that the redesigned notes and the old notes will continue to be accepted as legal tender and will circulate side-by-side for transactions ahead of the 31 December deadline, when the old N1000, N500, and N200 banknotes will eventually be phased out.
He also explained that “though the charges might be the same, the facts relating to the filing of this particular charge before this court are not the same with the other one, as the transactions, facts and offences are different.”
Speaking by phone, she said she had not been briefed on the attack.
“The crisis in Akwa Ibom APC stems from the last congresses of the party.
“With a 30 per cent Ad Valorem tax and a specific tax of N75/litre, most wine industries operating in the country may have to shut down.
If women are going to get it right, then we must work with the men from conceptualisation to passage.
Bank of America said in a forecast in October 2022 that the naira could be devalued by as much as 20 per cent in 2023.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that there was a handover of economic trees to community-based groups as an advocacy for the government’s tree-planting policy.
However, there are enough precedents to bring the Northeast into the leadership race.
Coming to terms with an unpalatable projected eventuality – sorry – possible eventuality, counsels deep reflection, not demonization of the bearer of sour news.
He said: “In order to enhance the trade relationship, visa tenure is very important.
So, when she didn’t return after 30 minutes, my husband and I became worried.
PREMIUM TIMES reported that the Nigerian government agreed to pay $496 million to settle a multibillion-dollar claim by Global Steel Holdings Limited.
Ms Keisha, who arrived at the scene at about 3.03 p.m. with a team of engineers, engaged the head of the LASTMA and FRSC teams on an urgent traffic architecture for the closure and diversion of vehicles.
The APC urged the election petition court to dismiss the petition filed by Atiku and his party, the PDP, challenging the victory of the president-elect, Bola Tinubu, in the 25 February election.
“We wish to use this medium to solicit for the leadership of the ruling party to support the zoning of speakership position to North- central going by the role the zone played in the just concluded general elections,” Mr Dikko said.
“Others are Service Chiefs, past Chief of Army Staff, senior military officers both serving and retired, captains of industries as well as other important dignitaries,” he said.
Each year, the tournament attracts huge attendance.
According to Eghosa Erhumwunse, National Director, SOS Children’s Villages, Nigeria, as part of efforts to support children and families affected by flood, the SOS Children’s Villages is implementing the Humanitarian Action for Flood-Affected Families Project.
I am grateful to all members of both the Bench and Bar, for the display of camaraderie during this period of trial.
All of a sudden, shots were fired and one of the bullets hit him in his thigh.
Sudan is home to a relatively large population of Nigerians, especially students.
The group, under the umbrella of APC North-Central stakeholders, described the reported arrangement as outrageous.
Both the university management and the students’ union confirmed the developments in separate statements on Tuesday night.
“For this work, she has faced repeated attacks, harassment, and violations of her human rights.
time and place did conduct yourself in a manner to cause breach of peace by making moves to indecently assault one Omolara James, 26, by wanting to touch her breast and thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 168(d) of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015.
The United States should be what it says it is,” Ms Adichie said.
By exposing corruption and seeking accountability, Carmen Aristegui has courageously and relentlessly continued her reporting despite the threats she has faced, and it is difficult to overestimate the impact of her work.
We are interested in learning what our readers value about our work, why they visit PREMIUM TIMES to stay informed, and what they would like to see more or less on our website daily.
“With my crowning as the monarch and Ezeaganama III of Awkuzu, the peace which eluded the people for over 18 years and tranquility have been restored.
“It goes without saying that we condemn all attacks on health personnel, on facilities and ambulances – which is putting more lives at risk,” he said.
He took a principled stand that the presidency should be returned to the South; and he had the courage to stand by his convictions, not minding whose ox was gored.
Court grants Nigerian govt leave to file more grounds against Nnamdi Kanu’s release
The commodities monitored by the Jollof Index are rice, curry, thyme, seasoning, groundnut oil, poultry, beef, pepper, tomatoes, salt, and onions.
“We will defeat those forces that think Nigeria is in their pocket,” he said.
Speaker, House of Representatives – North West – Hon.
The Supreme Court, on Tuesday, affirmed the election of Governor Ademola Adeleke of Osun State, sealing the governor’s victory over his most formidable rival, Adegboyega Oyetola, in the keenly contested 16 July 2022 poll.
He said the armed forces had continually demonstrated resolve to provide safe, secure and an enabling environment to promote national security.
What we were challenging were the powers of the commission to remove the incorporated trustees and that commercial banks should report dormant accounts of incorporated trustees as failure to comply within 15 days would attract a closure of such an entity.
“Working with 194 member-states across six regions and on the ground in more than 150 offices, WHO envisions a world where Health for All is realised.”
The statement was, however, contradictory to what INEC told Nigerians a day after the election.
He said there is a need for all lawmakers to fight to save the parliament.
Chairman of United Bank of Africa (UBA), Heirs Holding and Trasncorp, Tony Elumelu, donated N30 million towards launch of the book.
Aviation experts on Monday converged in Abuja to discuss the challenges hampering growth and development in Nigeria’s aviation industry in order to proffer sustainable solutions.
“…Undoubtedly, we have met with lots of brick walls and bureaucratic bottlenecks, yet we forged ahead decisively and now all the components are at the finishing lines, the foundation having been solidly laid,” the minister said.
“The posting is with immediate effect,” he said.
His earlier research ranged across African spirituality and ritual practices, spirit possession, Pentecostalism, Yoruba festivals, animal symbolism, icons, phenomenology, and religious pluralism in Africa and the Americas.
Nigeria began the second half with renewed determination, and Light Eke found the equaliser within the first minute of play, finishing off a brilliant run by Agada.
Mr Kolade previously taught at the University of Wolverhampton and De Montfort University.
Fever started about the same time and, based on clinical suspicion, a sample for Lassa Fever test was taken.
The AGF office gave no reasons for terminating the N1.84 billion corruption trial of Mr Dasuki’s ex-aide on Tuesday.
“With the media amplifying the activities of foreign organisations, I believe that we will be able to address governance issues and entrench transparency and accountability surrounding loans in the country”.
Samuel Ogoshi is charged with sexual exploitation and attempted sexual exploitation of minors that resulted in the death of one Jordan DeMay, an offence that carries a maximum penalty of life in prison and a statutory mandatory minimum of 30 years in prison, the EFCC statement said.
Liberia of Samuel Kanyon Doe, Yormie Johnson and Charles Taylor; as well as Sierra Leone, Libya, Somalia, DRC and others were to face theirs as well.
“That is on its face a patent reference to paying of bribes, do you agree?” Nigeria’s lawyer asked.
Police spokesperson, Bright Edafe, told journalists in Warri (Delta) on Sunday the suspects were nabbed by a police decoy squad following a credible and intelligence-led investigation.
No matter, until that moment, the structures that ensure just and equitable cohabitation must be protected from partisan appropriation – be it from material inducement, fake news, or verbal terrorism – the last being the contribution of one who is positioned to assume co-leadership of the nation, no less.
They were found guilty of conspiracy of organ trafficking in March by the Westminster Magistrate Court, an offence that contravenes the Modern Slavery Act.
“The Command has therefore tasked officers and men to uphold the tenets of professional policing in the discharge of their duties with respect to fundamental human rights of all citizens in line with the provisions of the 1999 constitution of the federal republic of Nigeria (as amended) while hoping that this will serve as a deterrent to others officers.”
Mr Tinubu had contested and won the election as the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), according to the results declared by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC).
There were also Senators Barau Jibril, Adeola Olamilekan Yahyi, Opeyemi Bamidele, Dayo Adeyeye, Sabi Abdullahi and Adelere Oriolowo as well as Secretary of the recently-dissolved Presidential Campaign Council, James Faleke, Babajimi Benson and Bayo Onanuga, director of media and publicity in the dissolved Presidential Campaign Council.
President-elect Tinubu mourns exit of eminent jurist, Bola Ajibola
His most recent feature in 2022 was ‘Omo Ologo’ with Qdot.
Speaking during the Channels TV programme, Mr Umahi expressed surprise that incumbent President Muhammadu Buhari, and the APC candidate, Mr Tinubu, now president-elect, lost the presidential election in their states.
Three worshippers were reported hit by bullets in the attack on Margis Church in the Al-Masalma neighborhood of Omdurman
The news of Murphy Afolabi's passing is coming at a time when industry practitioners are yet to come to terms with the news of the death of one of its veterans, Saint Obi.
The defendant pleaded not guilty and the matter went into full trial during which the prosecution called several witnesses and tendered documents to prove the case against the defendant
“This has no doubt boosted the troops morale and enhanced the deal.
I think the ruling party (APC) did not get it right.
The Magistrate, Olabisi Fajana, gave the permission on Tuesday when she ruled on the application when sitting resumed at the Ogba Magistrate Court, Ikeja District Court 13.
The applicant noted that the Supreme Court had in a letter it wrote to him on 19 January, wherein it addressed him as the national chairman of APGA, asked him to approach it by way of a motion to regularise the said judgement.
He insisted that the bank did not engage in any fraudulent activities in relation to the funds paid to its customers either before or after the opening of the account.
The PDP, therefore, demands that INEC Headquarters should immediately direct the Returning Officer to conclude collation, announce the results from the Polling Units and declare our candidate, Governor Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri as winner, having scored the majority of lawful votes cast,” he said.
A 1st prosecution witness in the trial of Eze Harrison Arinze, has told Justice J. K. Omotosho of the Federal High Court sitting in Abuja, how Arinze received $382,000 (Three Hundred and Eighty Two Thousand United States Dollars) worth of bitcoins from his victims before his account was blocked by his Virtual Asset Service Provider , VASP.
The Appeal Court must agree with the District Court before his rights can be fully restored.
The Presidency’s attempt to mock Governor Ortom over the loss of his senatorial seat and the PDP in the Governorship has furthermore strengthened our belief that the massive deployment of security personnel for the elections in the state was planned and hatched in the presidential villa and supervised by agents of the APC.
“I urge all labour unions and security agencies to comply with the closure order,” Mr Wike said.
He said Israel is ready to cooperate and share its knowledge and experience, assuring that through shared future and close working relations Nigeria and Israel could record significant and positive impact, which would be felt generations to come.
She advised healthcare professionals and consumers to report suspected adverse drug reactions or substandard and falsified medicines to the nearest NAFDAC office.
He said it is fully air-conditioned with multi-media facilities: a 150KVA generator with a backup 10KV Inverter attached to solar panels and a 15KVA Lithium battery.
He, however, insisted that such a perception is not true.
Mr Danmadami, a major general, said that those calling for an interim government were just trying to be mischievous, adding that the constitution did not provide for an interim national government.
He solicited more synergy with all security agencies to save lives and property on highways.
She informed that the building, which was done within a year and ready for commissioning, will also be a home and hope for other Africa women-led organisations, and a center of excellence.
• Jiya Peter Ndalikali Niger South
The Eaglets did not qualify for the 1997 finals and lost out in the group phase in Guinea in 1999.
“Where there is a final declaration and return of candidate as winner and there was no objection to the decision of INEC then election petition can be filed pursuant to section 24(4)of electoral act 2022.
I have the right resources to prosecute this campaign and the election.
Hudu Yunusa Ari, by the Inspector General of Police.
They lost 2-1 to Spain in the knockout phase.
“We, in the spirit of equity, fairness, political expedience and following extensive consultations with stakeholders, hereby express our total support for the zoning of the position of the President of the 10th Senate, to the South-South geo-political zone of Nigeria.
This is a mischievous distortion of reality and utterly laughable.
“Eligibility of units to receive colours is another milestone as colours are regarded with great reverence.
Indeed, her journalism has repeatedly been a thorn to the side of those in power – frequently making her the target of reprisals.
There were also reports of missing persons.
Urging Nigerians abroad to enforce their judicial victory to vote, Mr Oke said “There may not be any future elections in Nigeria without voting rights of Nigerians in Diaspora.”
Mr Maduabuchi insisted that he was the party’s lawyer.
The US government last year described w Woodberry’s ally, Hushpuppi as “a prolific international fraudster who conspired to launder tens of millions of dollars through a series of online scams.”
He said he would rather have the process delayed to ensure due process and avoid a legal tussle after the selection.
The driver lost control of the vehicle when it had a burst tire, FRSC official says.
“This is however, not only for the outward Lagos section where the RTC occurred alone but also, the inward Lagos section as well.
He was arrested and charged to court with rape, the official said.
“The ones for the North-West in Janguza, Kano and the North-Central, in Karshi, Abuja, are ready.
He passed on at the Afe Babalola University Teaching Hospital, Ado Ekiti, following a brief illness.
The three suspected assailants had arrived at the site on motorcycles, the police said.
P&ID denies Nigeria’s charge.
The late Mr Idigbe studied law at King’s College, University of Cambridge and won the much-coveted Forster-Campbell Prize in Criminal Law in 1946.
In his remarks, the newly promoted officer thanked the president and the IGP for the promotion and assured the president of his total loyalty and full commitment to duty.
The ECOWAS Court has fixed 27 September for judgement in a suit challenging some provisions of the Nigerian government’s national broadcasting code.
Senate Presidency: Akpabio, Jibrin visit Ooni of Ife, seek royal blessings
The commissioner intervened after the matter went public earlier in the week, PREMIUM TIMES learnt.
Amidst the security crisis and continued abduction of school children, the Nigerian Military secured the release of some of the girls, as many of them were enrolled in various academic institutions including the American University of Nigeria.
“Her lonely voice on the election of President-Elect Bola Ahmed Tinubu is, at best, a muted trumpet which is audible to no one except herself and her co-travelers,” he noted.
About thirty persons on the platforms deposited various sums of bitcoin to the defendant’s account”.
PT: You are in the race for the Speaker, where is the inspiration coming from?
Adamawa Governorship: Group urges NBA to sanction REC who declared illegal result
The metal sticks used by the offender were provided to the police, and the father was arrested on 25 January 2021.
Mr Olufemi said he worked as an undercover labourer at the factory for four days when he confirmed that “casual workers are not stopped from smoking Indian hemp”.
“My foundation, the Aisha Buhari Foundation and Future Assured are grateful, while I count on your goodwill.
“EFCC is the coordinating agency for the enforcement of the provisions of any other law or regulation on economic and financial crimes, including the Criminal Code and Penal Code.
Mr Oyeyemi said the state Commissioner of Police, Frank Mba, had directed the transfer of the suspect to the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligent Department, CIID, for investigation.
Again, I think those are the things that are trying to deflect from what is really important and what is at stake.
Other aspirants like Deputy Speaker Idris Wase (Plateau), Yusuf Gagdi (Plateau), Sada Soli (Katsina), Muktar Betara (Borno) Tunji Olawuyi (Kwara), Abubakar Makki (Jigawa), Aminu Jaji (APC, Zamfara), Ado Doguwa (Kano) and Miriam Onuoha ( Imo) are yet to react to the development.
“When you see everyone dressed up and taking part it is just fantastic.
Imagine doing that consistently,” he said.
Of the 72 per cent recorded, NCDC noted that Ondo State accounted for 32 per cent, while Edo and Bauchi states reported 29 and 11 per cent, respectively.
Locals said several persons sustained gun injuries in the fracas that has inflicted terror on residents of the local government area.
The first one was for the award of contract for the procurement of a Cessna Caravan aircraft by the Nigerian Customs in the sum of N3,447,442,710 inclusive of 7.5 per cent VAT with a delivery period of 12 months,” he said.
Mr President Sir, Please, override this veto.
The judgement reinstated Ararume as the chair of NNPCL, awarded a whopping N5 billion damages in his favour and nullified the decisions the NNPCL board took during the period of his illegal removal from office.
former President Mahamadou Issoufou of Niger: “No country on the continent can go it alone, Africa needs the glue of the values of pan-Africanism as defined by Agenda 2063.”
The group stressed that it does not “wax eloquent on partisan politics, except when it becomes exceedingly necessary, and also does not begrudge or antagonise any Igbo” for his choice of political party and association.
“Argentina completed the first sale to Nigeria of a radar for civil use built by INVAP SE , which landed today in Abuja, the capital of Nigeria, and will be used for air traffic control in the African country…,” Argentina foreign ministry said in a statement.
“I am appalled and heartbroken by the tragic deaths of three WFP employees on Saturday 15 April in violence in Kabkabiya, North Darfur while carrying out their life-saving duties on the front lines of the global hunger crisis,” WFP Executive Director Cindy McCain said in a statement.
His arrest on Wednesday comes about 20 months after his removal from office and less than three weeks to the end of Mr Buhari’s tenure.
The respondents in the suit are: Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Alhassan Doguwa, member representing Tudun Wada/ Doguwa Federal constituency Kano and APC.
He argued that Transcorp had declared a closed period from 1 April, which meant that no member of the board or management could purchase shares of the company.
The North-west is the stronghold of the APC, its presidential candidate, Bola Tinubu, got the highest votes from the region.
Prudent financial management key to private sector investment- NCDMB
Once you have to apply for a visa every year, it discourages you from travelling to that country.”
“The telecom surveillance used to bring the journalists into custody, followed by a more than three-year-long trial, demonstrates the lengths Nigerian authorities will go to arrest and prosecute the press,” Ms Quintal said.
“One of the three children came across his aunty in Ibiade where he currently lives with his father (suspect) and narrated their experience with their father, which led to the death of his two elder siblings – Yusuf Ogunfadeke (18 years) and Dasola Ogunfadeke (17 years) between April and June 2022 in Ijebu-Ode where they were all living with the suspect until he relocated back to Ibiade.
The organization added that Mr Buhari, who is also the minister of Petroleum Resources, must ensure Nigeria gets justice.
Where do you start?” Mr Obi said.
“It is welcome news that health systems in the majority of countries are starting to restore essential health services for millions of people who missed them during the pandemic,” WHO Director for Integrated Health Services, Rudi Eggers, was quoted to have said on the WHO website.
The Nigerian authorities, however, have not carried out a single credible investigation into the security failures that left children vulnerable to the atrocities committed by Boko Haram and gunmen.
However, other officers in government have acted in a different manner.
Majority Leader – House of Representatives
While noting that the earlier envisaged 30 April date for conclusion of the final stretch could not be achieved due to a combination of factors, work within the OPIC area between Kara Bridge and the Long Bridge has been completed and would be opened to traffic tomorrow, Sunday (April 30).
“APC victory in the election is a watershed moment for the Buhari government, its orientation, its programmes and projects.
Mr Pantami said the deployment would go a long way in consolidating the achievements of the Buhari administration in security and also open new opportunities for addressing the security challenges in Nigeria.
Are we joking?” the governor added.
We should also talk about how difficult is to collect PVC and that in itself is a form of voter disenfranchisement.
According to him, the team led by Courage Erhabor, while on patrol, arrested the convict and three others at Kasuan Dere, Asokoro Village, while constituting a nuisance.
• Ahmad Ibrahim – Lawan Yobe North
“Parents of the 98 Chibok school girls who are still being held by Boko Haram — as well as other children abducted by gunmen — are living in anguish, knowing that their children are in the hands of ruthless individuals who subject their loved ones to chilling brutalities,” said Isa Sanusi, Acting Director of Amnesty International Nigeria.
Speaking on the failure of the officials to honour the invitation of the committee, Mr Gbillah said there are allegations against Ms Ahmed of breach of the Whistleblower policy of the government.
Mr Goro has represented the Constituency for three terms.
The felicitation was contained in a letter by NSCIA’s Deputy Secretary General, Salisu Shehu, dated 8 April, and addressed to the President of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Daniel Okoh.
I thank you very much for your time, and we hope you will work with us to make our country better,” he said.
The Presidential Transition Council (PTC), has disowned the programme of events for the presidential inauguration currently in circulation on the social media, describing it as fake.
The APC asks the Inspector General of Police to order an urgent and thorough investigation into incidents of violent attacks on leaders and members of our party in Rivers State, and to bring the sponsors and perpetrators to justice.
“For areas where thunderstorms are expected, strong winds are likely to precede the rains and as such, trees, electric poles, unsecured objects and weak buildings may be felled,“ it said.
Mr Onyema urged the media not to sensationalise its reporting whenever such incidents occur.
“The picture is even worse with the parliamentary elections where the APC lost majority seats in Kano with the NNPP clearing 18 out of the 24 House of Representatives seats in the state while in Kaduna, the APC lost all the three senatorial and 11 seats out of the 16 seats for House of Representatives to the PDP,” he said.
The evacuation was initially scheduled to start on Tuesday but did not happen because buses were unable to secure passes to move, a source at the ministry of foreign affairs who did not have permission to speak to the media, told PREMIUM TIMES.
With 163 seats in their kitty, the six minority parties in the 10th session of the 360-member House say there is a need to form an alliance to achieve a collective interest against APC with 162 seats so far.
Peace is not the absence of war.
He added that the new hospital was an intervention to make robust healthcare for those in custody and the NCoS staff.
“I must warn you to desist from any form of untoward incidents that could tarnish the image of the Armed Forces and Nigeria at large.
PT: How do you intend to enforce the judgement?
After he lost at the primary, Mr Wike led a group of PDP governors to rebel against his party and its presidential candidate, claiming that they (five PDP governors) were in support of a power shift to the south.
Senate postpones resumption by one week
2023: Peter Obi speaks on phone conversation with Oyedepo
It said that the court lacked the jurisdiction to entertain the matter.
And Nigeria is well endowed enough to drive the integration of the other seven tracks to work for the desired peace of our dear country.
He added that Mr Biu noted that most fleet operators and other vehicle owners, including private vehicle owners addicted to night journeys, did so for selfish economic gains.
The court also forbade the company’s chairman and all independent non-executive directors from running the company “in an illegal, unfairly, prejudicial and oppressive manner pending the hearing and determination of the petitioners’ motion on notice for interlocutory injunction.”
Citing section 104 of the ACJA, the government said it was its responsibility to bring Mr Kanu to court to face trial.
He explained that the slaves were taken through the Omambala River in Anambra to Calabar and then moved to the United States of America.
According to her, the $800 million is the first tranche of palliatives to be disbursed through cash transfers to about 50 million Nigerians, who belong to the most vulnerable category in the society.
It is essential for the government and security agencies to take action to protect journalists and ensure press freedom is upheld as an essential pillar of a functioning liberal democracy of the sort Nigeria aspires to.
He also held that the provisions of the Administrative Proceedings Committee in Section 851 of the new CAMA denied the plaintiff his constitutional rights of access to court in sections 6 (6) (b) and Section 36 (1) of the constitution and also usurped the powers of the Federal High Court under Section 251 (1) (e) of the constitution.
Other members of the team, according to Rice University, include John Coker, Patrick Obumselu and Victoria Akintayo.
He said that the organisation also realised that a healthier world was a safer world.
Sometimes, perfection is one hard thing to achieve.
The group pleaded with the court for a speedy hearing and determination of its suit seeking the probe and prosecution of Mr Tinubu over his alleged Guinean citizenship.
If securitized, the next administration will inherit a public debt of N77 trillion, according to the Debt Management Office.
Basheer Lado, who addressed journalists on behalf of the former senators, said the joint ticket of Messrs Akpabio and Jibrin would assist the incoming government deliver good governance and democratic dividends to Nigerians.
The palace spokesperson stressed that the fire did not destroy any cultural item.
Nigeria’s LNG Limited is said to be planning an expansion with the construction of Train 7 that is expected to boost total national production by about 35 per cent while $3 billion of debt has been raised to fund the work.
Mr Ozodinobi, who spoke on behalf of the LP caucus, said they will back anyone the group decides as long as the person is competent.
Instead, he blamed his wife.
For renowned constitutional lawyer and leading human rights activist, the citadel of learning has again come out in full force to tap from his deep scholarship, research, mentorship and knowledge of the law, as famous Abia State University, Uturu ( ABSU ), Abia State, has appointed him a VISITING PROFESSOR OF LAW in its Faculty of Law, with effect from the 2022/2023 academic session.
Buhari launches Nigeria’s new National Development Plan
It added that the fiscal responsibility law should be amended to set strict penalties for agencies that fail to remit their stipulated operating surpluses.
“The bags of rice were intercepted on the Benin-Okada Expressway, while the used tyres were intercepted on the Ihiala-Onitsha Road and Cross River Waterside, respectively,” he said.
Mr Hundeyin added that “a medical report that would ensure a conviction is being expected.”
He said that the project implementation site in Lagos included the Agboyi community in Agboyi-Ketu Local Government Area where cash-based intervention support to worst-hit families are provided to cater for shelter, food and Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH).
The family said it had to go as far as Nasarawa State to procure the WHO-recommended Ribavirin medication since neither IDH nor any other hospital in Lagos could provide one.
“It is evident from reports by the various security agencies in the state that the visiting team made their own security arrangements and totally bypassed the existing security architecture in the state and the state government was not aware of the ‘humanitarian mission’ of the visiting team,” he said.
“We should be valued as integral and essential contributors to the Mental Health Act, and other policies that concern us,” the statement reads.
NAN also reports that SPDC operates the EA shallow offshore fields off Bayelsa coastline, deploying a Floating Production Storage and Offloading (FSPO) vessel, with a capacity to process and hold 1.4 million barrels of crude.
Other contenders for the position are a former governor of Akwa Ibom, Godswill Akpabio, Jibrin Barau (Kano), Abdulaziz Yari (Zamfara), Ali Ndume (Borno) and Sani Musa (Niger).
INEC REC in Adamawa State, Hudu Ari, declared the APC candidate, Aisha Dahiru, the winner of the governorship election in the state.
“I was indeed touched by their depth of sacrifices and show of love, as we had to fly through Yola and took a voyage of about nine hours to Taraba State, while it was raining cat and dog in some axis as we travelled.”
She allayed the fears that the buses conveying the Nigerians would be attacked by either of the two factions fighting in Sudan, saying the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama, already secured the understanding of the leaders of the factions before the transportation of Nigerians by road.
We didn’t see Kosisochukwu.
It is obvious that the appellants’ case collapsed.”
Mr Gagdi stated this while unveiling his campaign manifesto at the Transcorp Hilton in Abuja on Saturday.
A participant, Rabiat Audu, said the programme is a welcome development to the community which, according to her, has lots of women willing to acquire new skills.
Typically, this is demonstrated through commitments, new initiatives and proclamations about a fresh chapter in African relations.
On national security, he advised the incoming government to focus on decentralising the police, rejig Nigeria’s security architecture and pay significant attention to the herders and farmers crisis.
At least three staff members of the World Food Programme (WFP) have been killed in the ongoing clash between the army and paramilitary forces in Sudan.
A woman in Faenza reported that within 10 minutes the water rose almost to the first floor of her house.
The controversy it generated forced INEC to immediately order suspension of the collation of result till further notice.
*One (1) Lamborghini Urus, vehicle number N4973
“Also, the total sum of N13 million being cost for administrative charges, expression of interest and nomination forms was approved,” he said.
“This has been done even when some of these houses were still at the foundation level, but they all turned deaf ears,” she said.
Mr Mohammed briefed State House correspondents after the Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting presided over Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on Wednesday at the Presidential Villa, Abuja.
The petitioner also questioned the validity of the election on the basis of alleged non-compliance with the mandatory provisions of the 2022 Electoral Act.
The Court of Appeal in Abuja affirmed the eight-year jail time for Mr Maina for stealing N2.1 billion pension fund.
“You can all attest to my faithfulness in resolving inherited challenges on workers’ salaries and pensions.
• Mohammed Tahir Monguno – Borno North
Munira Bala-Ngaski, a mother to one of the released students, expressed her gratitude to God for the release of her daughter by the abductors.
“Ben, should take this up.. We don’t allow or encourage our men on patrol to dress like this.
Mr Adeleye, who hails from Akure, is an ordained pastor of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG).
“I accept that,” Murray said.
They say it is the wearer who knows where the shoe pinches.
Before the delay at the Egyptian border, the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) had announced that 1,600 evacuees were expected to arrive in Nigeria last Friday.
According to him, the state has a great advantage as it produces a lot of gas and oil.
Meanwhile, in counts 15 to 17, Mr Fani-Kayode and one Olubode Oke, who is said to be at large, were alleged to have made cash payments of about N30 million, in excess of the amount allowed by law, without going through a financial institution.
He is equally a graduate of the law faculty of Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, and the Lagos campus of the Nigerian Law School.
Granting Mr Njoku’s request, a five-member panel of the Supreme Court on 24 March, said it made a mistake in the judgement it delivered in 2021, where it erroneously wrote the name of Victor Oye as APGA national chairman instead of that of Edozie Njoku.
“In the process, the complainant was instructed by his team leader to disconnect the defendant’s light from the pole.
Civil society organisations working in environmental conservation and protection can help ensure policymakers prioritise wildlife crime through advocacy and campaigns.
The first human case of Mpox was recorded in 1970 in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) during a period of intensified effort to eliminate smallpox.
“There is no iota of truth in it,” the lawmaker-elect said to our reporter
The cloud will settle.
Mr Buhari will conclude his eight-year tenure on 29 May when he formally hands over to Mr Tinubu.
Not a councillor that will be lower than himself, but a senator, which is the highest legislative body.
The group says it is yet to recognise Mr Tinubu as president-elect.
She said the international passport was an official identity document, issued to Nigerians for the purpose of traveling out and into the country in exercise of their rights to personal liberty and freedom of movement.
Mr Gwadabe was a minister from 1999 to 2003 in the first term of President Olusegun Obasanjo administration.
“The Ministry of Finance Budget and National Planning presented a couple of memos for which approvals were obtained.
He thanked Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State for the infrastructure he has provided that would make life for his retirement and that of the people of the state much better, adding that the governor of Kano had equally done the same.
In the audio clip, Petee Obi was heard asking Mr Oyedepo to help spread his campaign message to Christians in the South-west and parts of North-central.
The governor’s boys came and spoilt all my sound systems, (and) speakers, alongside the fuse that I was charging at the venue.
President Buhari told residents of the Federal Capital Territory led by the Minister, Muhammad Musa Bello, on Eid-el-Fitr Sallah homage, that his journey was not all smooth as he was incarcerated for three years, after the coup that ousted him from power in August, 1984, and contested elections three times, 2003, 2007 and 2011, without success.
The statement said the president-elect will use the opportunity of the trip to fine-tune the transition plans and programmes, and his policy options with some of his key aides without unnecessary pressures and distractions.
Mr Namadi said this after he received reports from various sub-committees of the transition committee in his office on Tuesday.
“It is not in doubt that INEC has approached the Adamawa State election with a pre-set agenda of declaring the APC at all cost.
“For us forming a group, we are not fighting, we are all APC members.
As of 2 April, Nigeria has recorded a significant increase in Lassa fever infections and fatalities.
He said the team was led by Ogwu Onoja, SAN, and A.A. Malik, SAN and others.
INEC says collation of results of the supplementary election in Adamawa will resume as determined by the Returning Officer.
Mr Wike, along with members of his PDP G-5 governors, has been at loggerheads with the leadership of the party following his bickering in the aftermath of his loss to the party’s presidential ticket to Atiku Abubakar last year.
“They all possess the same educational qualifications and cognate experience on the job.
“At this point, I must thank the generality of journalists in the state for the co-operation I received till my election on March 18, 2023,” he said, while urging journalists in Akwa Ibom to give priority to development journalism “in the interest of our people”.
The Executive Secretary Jigawa State Scholarship Board, Sa’idu Magaji, said the government is now in the first phase of addressing the problem, which is the evacuation of the students.
According to him, the NYSC remains one of the most vital ideals of nation-building, institutionally encouraging inter-cultural and inter-religious marriages and removing insularity among citizens.
“We assure our residents and visitors of our continued commitment to law and order.
Mr Akinremi said Mr Ogunfadeke accused his children, a boy and a girl, of stealing and chained them in a confined space without food and water for over three months until they died.
According to Mr Adebayo, an investigation into the accident revealed that the driver of the Camry car lost control and collided with the Mazda commercial bus.
A three-man panel of the Court of Appeal in Abuja, had stayed the execution of its earlier judgement freeing Mr Kanu of terrorism and treasonable felony charges.
The doctors, among other issues, are demanding the immediate payment of the 2023 Medical Residency Training Fund (MRTF), tangible steps on the “upward review” of the Consolidated Medical Salary Structure (CONMESS) and payment of all salary arrears owed its members,, from 2015.
Nigeria has continued to experience a spread of Lassa fever, with an increase in the number of suspected cases recorded as of 2 April compared to that reported for the same period in 2022.
“It is, therefore, imperative that the incoming government takes into account the perennial budget deficits in the preparation of the Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (2024 – 2026) and the 2024 budget.
The outcomes of both the presidential and governorship elections are expected to have an impact on the supplementary elections.
A breakdown of the figure showed that the federal government received N276.141 billion, the states received N232.129 billion, the local government councils got N95.243 billion, while the oil-producing states received N35.102 billion as derivation (13 per cent of Mineral Revenue).
Sun Newspaper reported that Mr Yara had during an interview placed a video call to the exiled leader, who confirmed that he conferred the “privilege” on Mr Tinubu.
Many of them are my friends, but we cannot have a Muslim/Muslim ticket in this election,” Mr Felix warned the party delegates.
In a similar tone, the source at NiDCOM noted that there are “not so serious” diplomatic hitches at the border and the Nigerian embassy in Egypt is trying to get diplomatic cover for the students.
Over 400 people have been killed in the violence and many counties including the US and Saudi Arabia have commenced the evacuation of their citizens.
Mob actions are banned and not allowed on the OAU campus!,” the union president further noted.
We expect the outgoing President to also do what he was voted to do for Nigerians.
It won in Plateau Central, Yobe South, Sokoto North and Sokoto East senatorial districts.
Mr Kayoda said that the exercise was conducted in compliance with the party’s Constitution, the 2022 Electoral Act (as amended), the 1999 Constitution (as amended) and the guidelines provided by the national leadership of the party.
Mr Ugwuoke said he had presented documents showing evidence of the acquisition but the GOC allegedly refused to listen to him.
Owing to the alleged widespread irregularities, the petitioner contended that Mr Tinubu should not have been “returned elected as the president-elect”.
“Beyond health and wellbeing, UHC also contributes to social inclusion, gender equality, poverty eradication, economic growth, and human dignity.”
The chef who targets a 93 hours cooking marathon has spent at least 70 hours showcasing her culinary skills before a live audience.
“Aware that Sokoto state House of Assembly has forwarded its resolution; and convinced that with the approval of Sokoto State House of Assembly, the Constitution (Fifth Alteration) Bill No.
Osinbajo presides over valedictory NEC meeting, gets accolades
Party primaries in Nigeria are also marred by allegations of vote buying, particularly if only delegates are allowed to vote in such primaries.
Tiwa Savage would perform alongside Paloma Faith, rock ‘n’ roll legend Steve Winwood, internationally renowned pianist Lang Lang and pop star Nicole Scherzinger.
He assured that the new PSC Chairman, Solomon Arase, has been working to harmonise and improve the services of both the commission and the police.
Meanwhile, the ministry said currently, the Export Trading House has been launched in Egypt, Kenya and Togo.
IMS Executive Director Jesper Højberg said:
Once inflation rates are back to targets, deeper structural drivers will likely reduce interest rates toward their pre-pandemic levels,” the report said.
Without one, the other will not be successful,” he admonished them.
The experts said people with haemophilia are at risk for excessive and recurrent bleeding from modest injuries, which have the potential to be life-threatening.
I couldn’t further the process because I was away until 2015 and that was in a critical period when attention was on politics only.
Burial arrangements will be announced by the family,” he said in an obituary announcement.
Criticising Nigerians for being forgetful in recognising “their legal rights,” the academic said it was high time the electoral umpire took steps to ensure “maximum compliance with the judgement (of the Federal High Court) given in favour of Nigerians in Diaspora” to exercise their franchise in Nigeria’s general elections.
Another user,@drhammed, narrated how a similar incident happened to him.
So, I give it to him.
“It was curious why the Minister was holding it so for me to call the (Late) Chief of Staff (Abba Kyari), he conveyed the letter to us and cc’ed me and the Nigerian Ports Authority so we drew his attention to the fact that we had not received a conveying directive.
Simon Karshe Cletus (Mavlon FC)
He noted that the WMD gives an opportunity to renew political commitments and bolster investments in malaria prevention and control.
“People with diabetes, high blood pressure, high cholesterol, or heart disease often take nitrates.
Mr Tinubu, the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential candidate in the disputed 25 February poll, called on the Presidential Election Petition Court to dismiss Atiku’s petition in his preliminary object against the suit.
Earlier via his Twitter handle, Mr Hundeyin said that “the ongoing investigation will be detailed, transparent, professionally pursued; and justice will be manifestly served for all parties involved.”
However, it is more of an issue of convention rather than law.
He was crowned on Saturday.
The police in Imo State, south-east Nigeria, said their operatives wounded several suspected members of the outlawed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) during a shoot-out with the group.
The presidency said that NIS had also built and inaugurated, in 2021, a Technology Complex at the NIS HQ, housing a Command-and-Control Centre.
As part of its recommendations, SDN advises Nigeria to proceed with caution “in the scramble for gas, conducts a thorough risk assessment of gas expansion, and updates long-term energy transition strategies to minimise the impacts, phase out oil and gas assets, and start investing for a post-oil and gas future.”
Mr Aliero’s motion and objection to consideration of the budgets was after reports on three budget estimates of NDDC was presented by Committee Chairman on Niger Delta, Amos Bulus.
In their maiden campaign, they reached the round of 16 after finishing second in their group.
It features photographs by award-winning photographer Akintunde Akinleye, interviews with the families, and chapters and excerpts by a team of experts, including journalists and psychologists, who have collaborated to create a comprehensive account and thorough examination of this tragedy,” she stated.
Section 28, however, excludes citizens by birth from restriction by section 137.
NiMet anticipates prospects of thunderstorms over parts of Taraba, Adamawa, Bauchi, Gombe and Kaduna States during the afternoon and evening hours.
malaria and other common causes of fever have been ruled out), with or without bleeding.
Reacting to Mr Tinubu’s response in which he described Atiku as a serial election loser, the former Vice President said that Tinubu was a giant in forfeiture, drug related offences and failure to disclose dual nationality to INEC.
Meanwhile, Mr Kalu has also announced his withdrawal from the race and accepted the endorsement as deputy speaker.
The Governor-elect of Abia State, Alex Otti, has accused the outgoing administration of Okezie Ikpeazu of looting properties of the state government.
Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi State has approved an exit package of ₦10,000 for Ebonyi State workers.
He said the assembly also passed 16 of the Constitutional amendment bills for the fifth alterations of the 1999 Constitution, which President Muhammadu Buhari signed into law.
Dr Garba Tetengi, SAN, mni – CHAIRMAN
He said, besides the stepping down of Mr Adebanjo, Afenifere’s meeting ought to be held in Akure since Mr Fasonranti is still alive.
Another patient, Patrick Uzor, said he had been waiting to be attended to for a long time, and it was yet to get to his turn.
“I will not allow this case to be truncated in the next adjourned date.
“Starting today (Tuesday), you can log into the same WhatsApp account on up to four phones,” an official said.
He stressed that the ECOWAS mission has zero tolerance for sexual exploitation and abuse.
On several occasions, many banks have also advocated that customers should never divulge their secret details unless they are sure about interacting with the right agents.
On Wednesday, when PREMIUM TIMES visited a UTME centre in Enugu for the visually-impaired candidates, over 20 of them were seen taking the examination.
The police spokesperson in the state, Henry Okoye, disclosed this in a statement on Sunday.
The killings have continued despite the efforts of security forces.
UK restricts recruitment of health workers from Nigeria, other countries
“Every life is valuable and must be treated with honour and dignity,” Mr Maikyau said on Tuesday.
Tinubu scored only about 19 per cent of the votes cast in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja in the 25 February presidential election.
In the Sokoto South contest, Mr Tambuwal (PDP) is leading with 7,859 votes, having scored 87,850 to Mr Danbaba’s (APC) 79,991 votes.
Nigerian doctors to begin strike Wednesday
You were a principal officer at the Senate when the National Assembly devised the creative piecemeal approach to constitutional amendment whereby each item is encapsulated in a separate bill so that the item stands or falls on its merit.
Result sheets were now slowly being uploaded on the IReV, and could be viewed by the public.
“Taking this opportunity, I invite you to pay an official visit to Ukraine at a time convenient for you.
Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State has directed the State Civil Service Commission to immediately issue promotion letters to 4,000 eligible civil servants who were recently promoted in the state.
They didn’t kill or wound anyone maybe because the monarch didn’t protest his abduction,” he said.
Mr Gambo said the letter of objection was signed by the then Director of Basic and Secondary Education, Chike Uwaezuoke, who he noted rather urged the government to consider the space outwards from the “North Western end of the wall fence of the school precisely along Rabah Road, without encroaching into the college’s land.”
A voice recording which many people believed was a conversation between Messrs Obi and Oyedepo surfaced online after the presidential election.
But a review of the screenshots of the conversation between him and the fake bank agent showed Mr Tony was unsuspecting of some details.
He also asked the panel to “examine and investigate compliance with communication channels as obtained in the public service.”
Mr Buhari said the startup act was developed in collaboration with his office, the Federal Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy, with the support of the tech ecosystem.
This makes tickets very expensive and limited because neighbouring countries get cheap tickets because of prompt payments due to the prompt repatriation of funds.
The source also admitted that services were slow due to the absence of the resident doctors, but “every patient in the hospital will be attended to in due time.”
“Elections by their very nature, tend to be divisive affairs.
The returning officer for Ifo state constituency 1, a professor, Richard Shobayo, declaring the result after a supplementary election on Saturday.
For the serious-minded, I call attention to essays I have offered on the theme of Reconciliation based on Truth, and the ethical imperative of Restitution.
The food company’s present PE ratio is 5.8x, while the EPS is N5.13.
Haemophilia: Health experts advocate proper diagnosis, management in Africa
According to him, the new University of Ilesa is a creation of the law which makes his removal of the tenured principal officers, duly approved by his predecessor, illegal.
He said: “Some political appointees and elected persons when they behave you will know clearly that they are high on drugs.
This includes recovery in services for sexual, reproductive, maternal, newborn, child and adolescent health; nutrition; immunisation; communicable diseases (including malaria, HIV, TB, and other sexually-transmitted infections).
He emphasized that building a Nigeria free from corruption requires a collective effort from all Nigerians.
The minister said despite supplying the cheapest electricity to Nigerians, the country still recorded the highest number of electricity bill defaulters in the world.
Mr Victor said the panel members later informed them that the investigations into the whereabouts of Mr Asadu had been concluded, but declined to reveal its outcome to the family.
Mr Nnadi condemned the nefarious means of earning a living by some members of the society, who had no consideration for the damaging effects of hard drugs which contributed to crime in the country.
Overall, my governor is not against me and he is a man who works with the system.
By our tally, the APC got 17, 158 votes while the LP amassed 73,311 votes.
Mr Buhari is scheduled to attend the 3rd Extraordinary Session of the Assembly of Heads of State and Government of the Gulf of Guinea Commission.
“In the last general election, it was glaring and crystal clear that people that were long dead had their names still displayed in the voters’ register.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the 25 February National Assembly elections held in the two Federal Constituencies were declared inconclusive because of over-voting and malfunctioning of BVAS machines.
The 14-man committee consists of at least four directors from the trade and investment ministry, as well as other directors from the offices of the Head of Civil Service of the Federation, the Secretary to the Government of the Federation and the Ministry of Labour and Employment, among others.
NCDC stated in the report that in total for 2023, “25 states have recorded at least one confirmed case across 99 Local Government Areas”, of which 72 per cent of all confirmed cases were reported from Ondo, Edo and Bauchi states.
NLC, TUC condemn thugs’ attack on members in Imo, declare indefinite strike
The group further emphasised in the statement that it identified “non-kinetic approaches to the warfare as a strategic tool in finally weakening, containing and even defeating all forms of terror in Nigeria.”
“This was focused on a harmonious working relationship based on mutual respect, consultation, cooperation, collaboration and partnership.
President Muhammadu Buhari says Nigeria’s size and resources have imposed on her a stabilising role in the West African subregion and the African continent as a whole.
According to the ministry source, “As of 0700hrs on 28th April 2023, nine buses have arrived at the Sudanese side of the Arkin border, and four buses have also arrived at the Wadi Halfa border.
“So, this is the work that is being done now; so all the experience, avoiding potholes on the bridge; this project will tackle that,’’ he said.
“At no time was any phone snatched or smashed.
King Charles was crowned King of England on Saturday.
Mr Osinbajo spoke on Tuesday at the official opening of the auditorium donated to the Department of Human Nutrition and Dietetics, Faculty of Public Health, University of Ibadan, by the Kessington Adebukunola Adebutu Foundation.
“What am saying in effect is this that they mixed criminality with civil process and the court that gave them that order endangered law.”
The Corps spokesperson, Bisi Kazeem, disclosed this on Sunday in a statement in Abuja.
I don’t have any apologies for whatever I have done in the management of trade disputes,” the minister said.
“Therefore, we are trying to align the contributions of NSITF to make it fraud-free.
His other books include Òrìsà Devotion as World Religion: The Globalization of Yorùbá Religious Culture, co-edited with Terry Rey, and Kingship, Religion, and Rituals in a Nigerian Community: A Phenomenological Study of Ondo Yoruba Festivals, which has become a model for ethnographic research among Yoruba-speaking communities.
The APC candidate polled a total of 8,794,726 votes to defeat his closest challenger, Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) who scored a total of 6,984,520 votes.
Mr Adejobi said the retired IGPs who graced the meeting included Sunday Ehindero, Mike Okiro, Ogbonna Onovo and Suleiman Abba.
Most concerning, perhaps, is the sky high intolerance of the so-called Obidients, one of who is Professor Okunna, who, self-respecting, should have honourably declined the membership of the Commission, on the ground of equity, even if she was erroneously offered.
“When someone asked me, I said “where them dey share the money make I go collect my own?,” he said in pidgin English.
This pre-historic site which parades ancient remnants of archaeology like the Kingdom of Kush, an ancient Nubian state, is on fire.
That statement named at least five journalists—Meskerem Abera, Dawit Begashaw, Tewodros Asfaw, Genet Asmamaw, and Assefa Adane—who were already in detention.
Mr Ogala said the case of the prosecution was premised on circumstantial evidence.
The ruling party was defeated in Kano by a strong third force, Abba Yusuf of the NNPP.
I am doing my thing with the knowledge that he will not be against what will bring development and support to the South-east.
“The staff of the Nigerian National Petroleum Company are reported to have diverted over N20 billion in the guise of consultancy fees paid to its consultants, Messrs Safaya,” he said.
“Magatakarda Aliyu Wamakko of the APC, having satisfied the requirement of the law, is hereby declared the winner of the election, and returned elected,” Mr Magawata said.
The prosecution said the offence is punishable under section 1(2)(b) of the Terrorism (Prevention) Amendment Act (2013).
Mr Ekwo said, although Mr Mamu averred that the SSS cannot take care of his health challenges, including “cardiac decomposition” and “thyro-cardiac disease”, the issue would not be the court’s only consideration in exercising its discretion.
Speaking in Pidgin English, the actor, who deployed sarcasm in his remark, said, “There’s time for laughter, and there is time to be very serious and saying things as they are.
Preceding the resurrection are the three days, from Good Friday to Sunday (known as the Easter Triduum), marked by fear, anxiety, uncertainty, disquiet and wariness.
Two Hilux vans belonging to NSCDC were overran and vandalized by the attackers.
Muhammad Nami, executive chairman, FIRS, wins ICAN merit award
He said that the convict had been warned several times to stop constituting a nuisance.
‘’It seems that the new notes are being hoarded.
Many allude to her novel on the Nigerian civil war, ‘ Half of a Yellow Sun’, as depicting her essentially ’Igbocentric’ perception of reality.
In 2011, his son’s Aranda Overseas Corporation bought Flat 10A in the same building.
A former judge of the International Court of Justice, Hague, Netherlands, Bola Ajibola, is dead.
The Director General of Raw Materials Research and Development Council (RMRDC), Hussaini Ibrahim, gave the advice in Sokoto at the inauguration of the first indigenous onion and garlic processing plant on Saturday.
The corps marshal expressed satisfaction over the good conduct, honesty and sense of patriotism exhibited by the personnel.
He added that new units had been established and operationalised since then in line with the increasing operational commitments of the army as well as provisions of its extant Order of Battle (ORBAT).
Mr Buhari recognised that the passion of the former Editor-in-Chief/Managing Director of the Daily Times; Assistant Publicity Officer, Department (now Federal Ministry) of Information and Pioneer Chairman of the Nigerian Broadcasting Commission, for public service was second to none.
”We’re on course, we’re having different stakeholders’ engagements, we’ve secured some funding from the World Bank.
Those joined in the suit are Mr El-Rufai, the state’s Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice of Kaduna State, Kaduna State Urban Planning and Development Agency, as well as Kaduna State Geographic and Information Service.
She was invited four times.
Defence 7 also challenged prosecutors’ assertion about the matter.
[PHOTO CREDIT: Francis Nwaze]“The members did not only approve the fund, they also forfeited their three-year constituency project funds to ensure the project is completed,” he said.
About 10 members of the House are jostling for the speakership position while eight senators and senators-elect are eyeing the senate presidency.
“Persistent cough for two weeks or more, fever, unexplainable weight loss and drenching night sweats are signs used to screen patients.
He set 11 July for sentencing after accepting the plea agreement Woodberry entered into with US prosecutors.
They laughed at me, and I responded, ‘God dey’.
Chairman of the election committee and Osun governor, Ademola Adeleke, urged the people of the state to rally around the party during the governorship election.
The police named the suspects as Badmus Olalekan, Ajibade Oludare, Eniola Aduragbemi and Femi Oloko.
“These accusations include racism, favouring foreign workers, and discriminating against Nigerian employees.
“Operation of local and international flights will commence soon.
In the amended charge dated and filed on 17 April, the police alleged that Mr Nnamdi, on 13 March knowingly and intentionally sent a message through a tweet from his Twitter handle ‘Chude’ by means of computer system and network.
If we are all undertaking a reform, then the benefits and pains that will come out of the reforms must be mutually shared by all Nigerians, not just the downtrodden,” Mr Obaseki said.
It was done mainly for identification.
Hon Benjamin Kalu, respectively as Speaker and Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives.
There has been an intense debate on social media platforms over Bola Tinubu, Nigeria’s president-elect’s alleged citizenship of the Republic of Guinea in West Africa.
Before his demise, he claimed there was a threat to his life by the police.
INEC says those who collected Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) in the affected polling units number 5,250
A former Guinean President, Alpha Condé, confirmed his conferment of “Ambassador extraordinaire” on Mr Tinubu, whom he described as a “pan-Africanist.”
The arrest and seizure followed a three-day intelligence-led operation.
He added that he never resigned from office and was not dead.
INEC has since declared Governor Ahmadu Fintiri the winner of the election.
President Buhari has about two weeks left of his eventful tenure.
“I wrote that letter because this is important to preserve the truth when something like this happens in a country it’s important to tell the story of what happened.
The report published in December 2022 shows that there were 247 million cases of malaria in 2021 compared to 245 million cases in 2020.
“The warning strike will commence at 8 a.m on Wednesday 17 May and end 8 a.m Monday, 22 May”
“A convoy of 13 buses conveying the first batch of the evacuees from Khartoum in Sudan is moving to the holding area in Aswan, Egypt where they will be airlifted to Nigeria.
The officers took Mr Ohadoma to Umuchima Police Station, within the community, after inviting a nurse to treat him – he was bleeding, apparently from the beating he got from the officers, PREMIUM TIMES learnt.
Once reinforcement is taken away, concrete alone cannot do the job, hence the collapse.
He added that it has nothing to do with the APC in the state.
The police boss warned, “Loan agencies to stop taking laws into their hands in the process of recovering loans from their debtors, as anyone caught in such act will be arrested and prosecuted.”
In the application, she said Governor Ahmadu Fintiri of Adamawa State, who is candidate of the PDP, allegedly disturbed her declaration as winner of the poll and attacked an INEC National Commissioner, a situation that forced the electoral commission to declare the election null and void.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
While state actors, especially state governors, must end intimidation and harassment of journalists, Nigerian politicians and political parties should also desist from the use of online trolls to attack journalists and media organisations for performing their constitutional duties of upholding the people’s right to know and holding governments, individuals and organisations accountable.
They are equally contending Mr Tinubu’s failure to secure 25 per cent of lawful votes cast in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT).
Mr Abang advised that National Assembly should revisit Section 108(3) of ACJA in the overall interest of justice.
Mr Awo requested more time to file a response to a filing served on him by Mr Kanu’s lawyer, Mike Ozekhome.
This is the order of this court,” Mr Ekwo declared.
According to him, troops recovered 14 AK47 rifles, two NSVT guns, three PKT MG, three Gun Trucks, 188 rounds of 7.62 x 54mm ammunition, 142 rounds of 12.7x108mm ammunition, 110 rounds of 7.62mm special ammunition, 27 cartridges, 18 dane guns, 17 AK47 magazines and Improvised Explosive Device wires.
As you have said, the request was made available on Wednesday and of course as is characteristic of the Nigerian Senate, the request will be sent to the relevant committees of the Senate for consideration and there will be interface with the relevant agencies of the executive to be able to get proper briefing,” he said.
The prosecution alleged that Mr Kanu, of Afara Ukwu, Umuhahia North Local Government Area of Abia State, as a member of and leader of proscribed IPOB sometimes in September 2021, committed an act of terrorism against Nigeria and its people by allegedly making a broadcast received and heard in Nigeria with intent to intimidate the population, threatened that the people would die and that the whole world would standstill.
Mr Fashola also recalled that as Lagos State Governor, between 2012 and 2015, his administration delivered 200 units of houses to members of the public every month over three years.
The police usually call them “encounters” – many say these are really staged confrontations which almost invariably end with dead criminals and unscathed police.
HURIWA accused the governor of failing to engage in “constructive dialogue” with restive youths to address growing insecurity in the state.
“They brought our ammunition via helicopter,” he said.
He fell to the ground.
Ladi Adebutu is challenging the reelection of Governor Dapo Abiodun at the election petition tribunal.
It strikes me as a possible ploy to smother recent provocations by other, far more trenchant issues, such as revelations of declarations of a religious war.
He also had bruises on his shoulders and his head, as well as cuts to his hands.
This strategy was to prioritise the frontal pain points of MSMEs and install a systemic framework to resolve them.
“It is most unfortunate the way they are looking at us, we are doctors, and we are looking at germane issues.
Police arraign officer for allegedly killing Delta man over N100 bribe
Mrs Ahmed, speaking on behalf of the Chairman of the IPI Nigeria Board of Trustees, Kabiru A. Yusuf, pledged the readiness of the BOT to support the executives at all times.
“So today in council, something very significant has happened in the world of civil aviation.
“Therefore, I urge the president to order the security agencies to move into the area with immediate effect to curb the killings as well as the National Emergency Management Authority (NEMA) and other well-spirited organizations to also move in with relief materials for the wounded survivors of the dastard attack.
We need to reach the millions of children who missed out on vaccines, restore essential immunisation coverage to at least 2019 levels, strengthen primary health care to deliver immunisation and build lasting protection in communities and countries.”
“Visibly polluted waterways, farmland, and air, which make it no longer economically productive for stable livelihoods of farming, fishing, and hunting.”
Senate Presidency: Orji Kalu meets Tinubu
Mr Okoye, an assistant superintendent of police, said the police in the state were investigating the killing of the officer.
That is not the issue.
A mob immediately descended on him, beating and stoning him to death before setting his car on fire.
But the students, through the students’ union, expressed dissatisfaction and urged the management to rescind the decision.
In a statement by its spokesperson, Festus Okoye, INEC said the delay in uploading the presidential results was due to “technical hitches” and not because of sabotage.
The vice president-elect, Kashim Shettima, on Friday, said the nominations were made to ensure religious balance in the political leadership of the country.
"APC victory in the election is a watershed moment for the Buhari government, its orientation, its programmes and projects."
“It is said that a journalist is as good as her contact and I came with that objective, now my contacts are better,” she said.
He said the process of rectifying their data is ongoing and they will also be scheduled to sit the examination on Saturday, 6th May.
Mr Tinubu who won the 25 February presidential election under the APC platform is paying a two-day visit to the state to commission a flyover and a court building constructed by Governor Wike’s administration.
Mr Olatubosun said the decision was taken at the State Executive Council meeting held on Tuesday.
However, at exactly 12:00 p.m., the students were asked to line up for accreditation.
Like Your Predecessors, Please Override This Veto
Contacted for comments on the book and the claims therein, David Iyofor, the spokesperson for ex-Minister Amaechi, said his team would issue a comprehensive response to memoir after reading it.
“I took over the steering from him and started driving but when we got to Oghara Road, he offered us money to settle the matter and I told him to pay N500,000 but he paid N400,000 to a Point of Sale account which I gave him and was later transferred to me.
Forbes says one of the surprises recorded in this year’s ratings is the rise of BUA Group chairman Mr Rabiu from $7.6 billion a few months ago to $8.2 billion to become the 249th richest person in the world.
The press statement is reproduced below:
In her remarks, the Resident Representative of the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), Ulla Mueller, said the theme for this year’s occasion is deeply concerning for UNFPA, which she said is driven by the goals of zero preventable maternal deaths, zero unmet need for Family Planning and zero Gender-Based Violence by 2030.
The News Agency of Nigeria, (NAN) reports that Mr Ararume sued the Federal Government, praying the court to declare his sack as NNPC board chairman illegal, unlawful and unconstitutional.
Nigeria’s President-Elect, Bola Tinubu, has described himself as “a happy man,” saying he went through a “gruesome” presidential election campaign and won “fair and square” with the support of the people.
Mr Tinubu urged the winners to brace up to serve the people with diligence and dedication.
President Hage Geingob, who visited South Africa last week, has also threatened to pull Namibia out of the ICC before.
The students, during the protest, carried placards with inscriptions such as: “No to Penalty Fees,” and “Late Registration Fee not for School with High Fees,” even as they insisted on the removal of the compulsory N5,000 fee which they claimed has denied them access to course registration on their portals.
“The event is a unique ceremony not only to the units eligible for colour presentation, as many are looking up to this ceremony to witness the height of military discipline and regimentation.
He, however, declared that it is time the party reward his loyalty.
Speaking at the event, the NGO’s team lead in Abuja, Benjamin Ibhazukor, said the programme was organised to empower young persons in the community.
He said the difference lies in the method of conducting the UTME examinations and that the process of registering for the examination is the same.
“According to the CDD, there are reports of vote trading in zones across the country, with both cash and goods used by all political parties in an effort to entice voters to cast their ballots at their direction.
”The right to freedom of association were violated in Ebonyi and Lagos, Right to Dignity of Human Person in Lagos, Edo, Delta, Benue.
New Senators-elect and members-elect are being offered thousands of dollars.
He became the Editor of the Nigerian Sunday Times in 1958 at the age of 23, and Features Editor of the Daily Times in 1958, then the paper’s Editor in 1962, going on to become the Daily Times Group Editorial Adviser in 1965, and in 1966, he became Editor-in-Chief of the Daily Times.
“In June, 2019, Nigeria’s National Assembly passed the Suppression of Piracy and Other Maritime Offences Act, 2019, which aims to prevent and suppress piracy, armed robbery and other unlawful acts against ships,’’ Adesina noted.
Stating the reason for the measure, Mr Braimah said, “Environmental Health Officers of the Board carrying out routine monitoring activities in the market, a week ago, noticed the filthy market environment, garbage littered all over the place and bleeding sewer lines.
“We have looked at it, the contractor has critically assessed the situation.
LAGA is a non-governmental body that advocates for wildlife law enforcement in the country.
The APC in Benue State had on Wednesday suspended Mr Gemade and others for alleged anti-party activities.
It is contested by 24 teams of the under-17 national teams of the member associations of FIFA from six confederations.
The executives of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kashere Ward of Ammo Local Government in Gombe State said they have sacked a former governor of the state, Danjuma Goje, for alleged anti-party activities.
“Our presence is to add value to the electoral process by preventing vote buying and change of results at collation centres,” he said.
Aristegui was honoured for her decades of fearless reporting on corruption despite targeted efforts to silence her
The Military Special Task Force, Operation Safe Haven (OPSH) providing security in Kaduna has dismissed allegations of bias made against the outfit by a Southern Kaduna group, the Zangon Kataf Youth Christian Association of Nigeria,
INEC also said the collation of results would resume as determined by the Returning Officer.
It also thanked ‘friendly countries’ who assisted in bringing succour to Nigerians fleeing the war in Sudan particularly the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia who assisted with the evacuation of eight Nigerians to safety in its territory.
In a recent video, a lady identified as Omolara James narrated how she was "sexually harassed" and assaulted by an auto spare parts dealer popularly called Bebex in Ladipo, Mushin area of the state.
We are just hopeless!”
This year’s conference, themed “Sustainability of the Aviation Industry in Nigeria,” hosts aviation experts from the private and public sectors, in an effort to chart the way forward for the development of Nigeria’s aviation industry amidst a myriad of challenges.
Not only does this lead to good journalism, it is also key to upholding democratic values.
Mr Trusty told CNN that no reasonable prosecutor would go to court with Michael Cohen as a star witness “but Alvin Bragg is not a reasonable prosecutor.”
“Some electoral workers in polling units claimed that they could not upload results because they didn’t have a password, an excuse that voters understood to be subterfuge.
“Ongoing conflict has affected the nutrition status of children on several fronts.
The Minister of State for Labour and Productivity, Festus Keyamo, on Saturday, explained how he acquired a house in the United States, in the wake of angry reactions to his recent online video clip showing him in the house.
However, on Wednesday, in reaction to media reports and public criticism of his statement, Mr Mohammed blamed the media and specifically attacked PREMIUM TIMES.
Mr Lagbaja, represented by Bayode Adetoro, a major general and Director, Peace Support Operations, said the graduation further confirmed the commitment of Nigeria to deploy quality peacekeepers as part of its contributions to the quest for global peace and security.
“The Estimated time of their arrival at Port Sudan (PZU) to Juba (JUB) is 2 hrs 50 min.
“This reprehensible criminal conduct of the Adamawa State REC confirms the earlier alarms by the PDP which demanded his immediate removal from Adamawa State following evidence of his complicity and being compromised by the APC and its candidate to manipulate the election in their favour notwithstanding the votes by the people of Adamawa State.
According to INEC, Mr Tinubu scored 25 per cent votes in – Ekiti, Kwara, Osun, Ondo, Ogun, Oyo, Yobe, Lagos, Gombe, Adamawa, Katsina, Jigawa, Nasarawa, Niger, Benue, Akwa-Ibom, Edo, Kogi, Bauchi, Plateau, Bayelsa, Kaduna, Kebbi, Kano, Zamfara, Sokoto, Taraba and Rivers State.
Mr Fisher said that the company is being denied access to forex by the CBN acting at the behest of NSPM.
N2.4bn Debt: AMCON takes over Glano Nig.
The governor described the destruction as an “extremely unfair” action against the state government’s investment drive.
He and Hushpuppi were arrested over their fraudulent online activities in Dubai, the United Arab Emirates, on 10 June 2020, and were immediately flown to the United States to face separate trials.
Like others, undergraduate students in the state have become targets of abduction in recent times.
It was however only Tinubu who met the constitutional requirement of scoring 25% of the votes cast in each of at least two-thirds of the states of the federation including the FCT, which translates to 24 states.
Suffice to say that as the government reconsiders the policy on petrol subsidies, the National Social Register remains one of the most reliable pathways through which government could directly target sections of the population most likely to feel the immediate impact of subsidy removal, as recently attested to by the Honourable Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning.
A five-member panel of the Supreme Court led by John Okoro, adjourned the suit until 11 May for the hearing of the case.
The dispute followed the federal government’s revocation in 2008 of an agreement that handed control of the steelworks and the National Iron Ore Mining Company to Global Steel Holdings Limited, an Indian firm.
An Ikeja high court on Wednesday sentenced a 32-year-old carpenter, Onyekachi Agu, to seven years imprisonment for pouring acid on his former girlfriend, Aishat Adefarati, and her new lover, Monsuru Ahmed.
Burkina Faso are meanwhile going back to the global stage for the first time since their last qualification in 2011 when they exited in the group stages.
I am confident that he will not keep women aside, how ever it goes.
They maintained that wages received by Anambra workers cannot feed them and their families, while appealing that those due for promotions should be promoted.
NAN also reports that the presidential candidate of Labour Party (LP), Peter Obi, and his Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) counterpart, Atiku Abubakar, are also challenging the election.
Forbes names three Nigerians among world’s billionaires
The UK court, before jailing the man 20 years, heard of how the Nigerian police failed to do anything when aspects of the rape case were referred to them.
In his ruling, Ahmed Mohammed, the judge, ordered the executive council of the party in Mr Goje’s native Kashere Ward to stay action.
The lawmakers, drawn from All Progressives Congress (APC), New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP), Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), and Labour Party (LP), will start the campaign in Enugu State before going to the other four states in the zone.
The coronation is the formal crowning of the monarch and a religious affair, reflecting that aside from being head of state, he is also the Supreme Governor of the Church of England.
The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) said in a statement that the judge, Tijani Ringim, issued the interim forfeiture order following its ex parte application.
Mr Shehu said: ”Among those memos that were okayed today was the award of the contract for the supply and installation of information and communication technology (ICT) components for the 2023 population census.
The case was eventually heard on 8 May.
VIDEO: Police officers smack two with machete in Imo
I implore you to decline to be used as tools to arbitrarily arrest our people, as has been the case before now,” he added.
She succeeds Nkemdili Nnonyelu, a professor who works at Nnamdi Azikiwe University.
M Kanu also, allegedly, on diverse dates between 2018 and 2021, made a broadcast received and heard in Nigeria inciting members of the public in Nigeria in furtherance of an act of terrorism against Nigeria and its people to hunt and kill Nigerian security personnel.
“That has always been our position that we are for the deputy senate president position and that is what we stand for.
We protested not because of the new monarch was coronated but because we wanted to send a message across,” he said.
The case was adjourned till June 19, 2023 for ruling on the application by the second defendant.
For the records, the pride of Canada and the US democracies is Multi-ethnicity and Multiculturalism, not ethnocentrism.
Rashid Sumaila, a Professor of Oceans and fisheries economics at the University of British Columbia, will deliver the second keynote address at the workshop in The Gambia.
“The fact is that we had about four Local Government Areas (LGAs) where we conducted election and one of them was in the Ikono/Ini Federal Constituency
However, a statement released by INEC and signed by its spokesperson, Festus Okoye, said the declaration is null and void.
Rattled by the growing DragonBear alliance, Western countries are redoubling efforts to build lost influence in Africa.
“I, Professor Muhammed Mele, hereby certified that I am the Returning Officer for the Adamawa State Governorship election.
Over 10 lawmakers in the House have indicated interest to run for the position of the Speaker of the 10th House.
WSCIJ trains 12 female journalists on leadership
Indications emerged on Friday that Mr Tinubu has also settled for Godswill Akpabio from Akwa-Ibom, South-south, and Barau Jibrin from Kano State, North-west, as senate president and deputy senate president respectively.
These three have shown that North-west had Ghali Na’Abba, Salisu Buhari, Aminu Masari and Tambuwal as Speaker.
I have my own handful in that lot, most of the people in different blocks, we will all meet here when the party takes it decision.
“We are excited that Mr. President has kindly consented to inaugurate this legacy and transformative project on the cusp of the completion of his two-term tenure as President and Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria,” the Permanent Secretary said.
The Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege, has commended President Muhammadu Buhari for approving the establishment of the Federal University of Medical and Health Science, Kwale in Delta State.
Unfortunately for Carlo Ancelotti, the historic night when he was handling his 191st game as a manager in the UEFA Champions League, surpassing Sir Alex Ferguson to become the most experienced coach in the competition’s history, ended on a sour note.
Mr Sulaimon said people with severe haemophilia often bleed spontaneously into their muscles or joints, or rarely into other critical closed spaces such as the intracranial space, where bleeding can be fatal.
He added that one of the reasons for the establishment of the candidate self-service is to make error identification and correction easy for candidates and all stakeholders;
In a statement on Sunday, the foundation said it would collaborate with the federal government and Air Peace to ensure seamless transportation of the stranded Nigerians and provide logistics and succour to the evacuees.
According to Mrs Effiong, “We are here to let the governor know that we have not been paid for four months now; in 2015, they refused to pay us for six months and now they want to go away with our four months salaries.
“These are people who cannot just believe that the Labour Party or the opposition did not win the election.
It ought to have determined the issue of jurisdiction before going into the substantive petition.
Senate Presidency: Obasanjo’s son endorses Akpabio, urges senators-elect to support APC’s zoning
He stated that she battled with diabetes.
The court discountenanced Mr Umuebe since he was not the one who filed the petition before the court.
He is also contending that Mr Tinubu did not score 25 per cent of lawful votes cast in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja, as statutorily required.
“On April 6, at about 10:00 p.m., police operatives attached to Nassarawa Division arrested the fugitive and one other for motorcycle theft.
Mr MacDon, a superintendent of police, said the Commissioner of Police in the state, Olatoye Durosinmi, has vowed to bring the perpetrators of the violence and killing to book.
His decomposing body was later found on 26 April at 9th Mile Corner, Udi Local Government Area of the state.
She told BBC that her experience has allowed her to understand how “dynamic” life is and has also given her a new vision to help specifically people with kidney conditions to show that they do not need to be scared.
There should be a proper consultation.
He was later to attend the School of Hygiene, Eleyele, Ibadan for his Ordinary National Diploma (OND) and in 1965, proceeded to do his Advanced Certificate (RSII), today’s equivalent of an HND, in 1965 and 1966.
Fresh crisis hits APC as vice chairman writes Buhari, files suit against Adamu, Omisore
Many Nigerians still face difficulties in accessing the redesigned notes, with riots and protests breaking out in parts of the country.
The Arab League joined world leaders to urge the fighting groups to silence their guns.
She said most of them (farmers) didn’t have cash and recorded no sales.
“Today, we are just about 60.1 per cent as against our target of 70 per cent.
While advising parents to be vigilant and monitor their wards to protect them from being involved in drug abuse, Mr Braji urged citizens to contribute towards building a drug-free society for sustainable social and economic development.
Yakubu Chonoko Maikya, OON, SAN (President) – CHAIRMAN
The vice-chancellor described stage performances as a unique tool for entertainment, raising awareness of societal ills as well as teaching morals, especially to young people and children.
A Nigerian senator, Ifeanyi Ubah, has criticised the president-elect, Bola Tinubu and the All progressives Congress (APC) for their involvement in the zoning of the leadership positions in the National Assembly.
NBC to appeal against judgement barring imposition of fine on broadcast stations
Favour Oluwasegun Daniel (G12 Football Academy)
NCC recommends two-factor authentication to secure WhatsApp
He declined to disclose what happened at the meeting but challenged Mr Melaye to come out first before he takes another step on the matter.
It added that investigations also revealed that the suspects hacked some social media accounts, posing to be young attractive women to entice unsuspecting victims to send their sexually explicit photographs.
Mr Akinosi said while his vehicle was caught in heavy traffic in the Onikan axis of Lagos due to the May Day celebration, one of the hawkers hustling on the road ran into his car and damaged a side mirror.
The United Kingdom said the decision became necessary following the World Health Organisation’s (WHO) projection of a global shortage of 10 million healthcare workers to achieve universal health coverage in low- and lower-middle-income countries by 2030.
The forum will be attended by leaders from Africa and across the world.
American intelligence surely cannot be so inept.
Senate President Ahmad Lawan expressed delight over the development.
The new development comes months after Jumia announced plans to lay off 900 of its employees.
Mr Mohammed, a retired lieutenant colonel and Managing Director of Unity Continental Nigeria Limited, allegedly received N120 million on 22 April 2014.
He said the outcome of the supplementary election, which happened in the area where the alleged murder happened, shows that people still have trust in him.
Under the tax laws, two-litre engine vehicles will attract an Import Adjustment Tax (IAT) of two per cent while vehicles with four-litre engines and above will attract a four per cent IAT with effect from 1 June 2023.
Mr Wabote further suggested that development and infrastructure projects should no longer be considered as gifts but as commercial ventures that need to be managed for profitability.
President-elect Tinubu says Ayo Adebanjo is one of the few remaining disciples of the late sage, Obafemi Awolowo.
Instead, he accused the former PDP flag bearer and his Labour Party counterpart, Peter Obi, of spreading propaganda to deceive the world that the election was fraudulent.
“Crime has reached its peak in UP and the morale of the criminals is high,” Akhilesh Yadav, chief of the opposition Samajwadi Party, tweeted in Hindi.
So what exactly is the point of Chimamanda’s letter to President Biden?
The victim, Alexander Nwosu, was abducted from his hometown in Umuchu, Ekwulobia, a community in Aguata Local Government Area of the state.
So, this e-NSITF has a phase one and the phase two.
He stated that Section 54 of the Electoral Act makes it mandatory for INEC to provide “assistive devices” for PWD.
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY TO THE GOVERNMENT OF THE FEDERATION
He recalled that the National Assembly approved the loan under the 2016-2018 Medium Term External Borrowing (Rolling) plan.
In the three other regions he didn’t win, the former Lagos governor came second.
For this purpose, one hundred thousand hectares (100,000 ha) was earmarked, of which 100ha will be treated as free and declassified.
Other defendants are the APC and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) as the 7th and the 8th defendants respectively.
Because like the blood of Abel, the blood of those who have been murdered continues to cry out to heaven seeking for justice ( Gen. 4:10).
According to him, it was on such premise that Mr Mutfwang extended an olive branch to those that contested against him.
NAN reports that the court held its inaugural sitting and conducted pre-hearing sessions on some petitions challenging the outcome of the 25 February presidential election on Monday.
Charles looked serious as he swore oaths to govern justly and uphold the Church of England – of which he is the titular head – before the most sacred part of the ceremony when he was anointed on his hands, head, and breast by Archbishop of Canterbury Justin Welby with holy oil consecrated in Jerusalem.
Charles Sunday Odenigbo – ALTERNATE CHAIRMAN
It is a continuation of the 2022 campaign.
Nigerian government, CJID, others partner to host summit on animal feed
He was said to have driven recklessly and rammed into about five commercial motorcycles carrying passengers at different spots at Ijo Mimo through Sunday bus stop to Ijoka road in Akure.
The supplementary elections are taking place in some constituencies in the seven affected LGAs in Ebonyi, including Abakaliki, Afikpo North, Afikpo South, Ezza North, Ezza South, Ikwo and Ivo.
The government canvassed this ground to argue that the Court of Appeal did not consider the issues that predated Mr Kanu’s extraordinary rendition.
Nigeria’s Defence Ministry presents N2.6 billion to families of 804 deceased soldiers
She said: “Key stakeholders across Nigeria understand the urgency in the need to address the challenges faced in the animal feed industry which directly affects food security.
Mr Dawulung thanked the military for the security cover provided to FRSC personnel that conducted the rescue operation.
Thursday’s event saw the retiring and replacing 53 units’ regimental colours and issuance of 28 new ones for newly established units.
This newspaper computed the available and readable results from the 1,116 polling units uploaded so far on the IReV within the period of the review.
Nigerian students in Sudan seek evacuation
“Those who are familiar with the bridge will recall that all of these failures were not this manifest on the bridge as at the time we did some work; and the work that we did concentrated largely on the sub-structure of the bridge—the piles, the underwater piles; the pile caps and also the replacement of the expansion joints and the bearings.’’
Mr Malami also said the report of the committee for the protection of journalists, equally adjudged Nigeria as the only African country that has been in full compliance in terms of the protection of the rights of the journalists.
Husseini Dikko, the acting director general of PPF, stated this during a press briefing in Abuja on Thursday.
Apparently, there was no election for now.
“And I said does it mean that this man is above the law or what is the problem,” the lawyer said.
YPP says the calls by certain individuals and organisations for an interim government after the 25 February elections are illegal, null and void.
The ad hoc committee, chaired by Mark Gbillah, on Tuesday issued the summons at its inauguration sitting.
*On World Press Freedom Day, IPI Nigeria sets agenda for Tinubu on journalists’ safety, media freedom*
The management of Ladoke Akintola University of Technology (LAUTECH), Ogbomoso, has banned its students from driving or bringing cars to the campus.
Ms Angela also stressed that it is important to fill the existing gaps in digital inclusion, adding that “collaborations, accessibility to inclusive technology, and affordability of this technology is crucial.”
“A person in such a critical field as medicine, how would you give somebody a temporary licence or what would that imply?
A magistrate’s court in Ilorin, Kwara State, on 7 February, convicted the journalists for publishing a defamatory article against Hillcrest Agro-Allied Industries Limited.
The federal government has enrolled three million girls in secondary schools across the country through the Adolescent Girls Initiative For Learning and Empowerment (AGILE) programme.
He said the firepower improved significantly under his administration.
READ NBA’S FULL STATEMENT
The statement noted that Mr Blinken looks forward to continuing to strengthen the US-Nigeria partnership which is built on shared interests and strong people-to-people ties after Mr Tinubu is sworn in as president on 29 May.
Well-familiar with intra-and inter-party disputes in Nigeria, Mr Tsammani gave the lead judgement of the Court of Appeal that handed back the control of APC in Kano State to the outgoing governor, Abdullahi Gaduje, in February last year.
A United Kingdom tribunal has held that a Nigerian be fined the sum of £26,835 (over N15 million) after being charged in relation to 61,800 cigarettes found in his bag without appropriate disclosure to relevant revenue authorities.
Nigeria calls for ceasefire in Sudan
Ecobank, Dangote Sugar, Flour Mills top stocks to watch this week
Were we just blind or did we get carried away by the promises of INEC?
The Nigerian government has added nine grounds of appeal to the four it hurriedly filed last year to block the release of Nnamdi Kanu, leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), from custody.
Sometimes as humans, we make mistakes but, I will never knowingly break any law.
Speaking at the Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium, the venue of the Workers Day’s celebration, Mr Obaseki urged workers to change their traditional strategy of reacting after policies that affect them have already been made.
He won two out of six states in the North-Central and did not have up to 25% of the votes cast in either the North-West or North-East.
Speaking on the alliance, George Ozodinobi, a lawmaker-elect from Anambra State, said the LP is committed to an alliance as long as the process aligns with its values.
Others are Chukwudi Aliewa, Obinna Igwe aka Nwampepe, Okechukwu Nwamgbegbu and others numbering 30,” she said.
The organization asked the outgoing president to set up a presidential panel of enquiry to investigate the missing crude oil as contained in the 2019 audited reports by the Auditor General of the Federation and Nigeria Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (NEITI).
“Government gave certificate but community enthroned a monarch in line with the tradition and culture of the people,” some indigenes of the community reportedly said.
Man remanded in prison for allegedly raping brother’s baby
Mr Onuoha said that JAMB provided hotel accommodations for the candidates and fed them alongside their help until the conclusion of the examination.
The document highlighted a steep jump in input costs for manufacturers in April, not altogether unanticipated as Nigeria’s inflation climbed to 22 per cent in the preceding month, closing in on its 18-year peak.
The suspect, Kosisochukwu Asadu, was arrested by police operatives from Rapid Response Squad (RRS) Awkuzu in Oyi Local Government Area of the state on 11 November, 2022.
The governorship elections were held on 18 March.
Mr Mamu’s lawyer, Sani Katu, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), had filed his client’s bail application dated 8 March and supported by 21-paragraph affidavit.
“No amount of pressure would stop us from challenging the outcome of the March 18 governorship election.
“As we join the rest of the world in marking the 2023 International Workers’ Day, we are reminded that Nigerian workers, not oil, gold or other natural resources, are our greatest resource.
He explained that colours also symbolised the campaigns, battle honours and badges granted to the regiment in commemoration of the gallant deeds performed by its members from the time it was raised.
The day is also to remind journalists of their obligation to professional ethics in the course of their duties.
He said the meeting was to raise the awareness of community-based groups and encourage them to take ownership of the measures.
Speaking at the airport event, Mr Kiyaramo said the South-south region of Nigeria, particularly Bayelsa State, was grateful to the conservator-general for facilitating the approval of two new national parks in the region, namely, Edumanon and Apoi Creek national parks which are in Bayelsa.
Mr Obi and the Labour Party, in their filing at the election petition court, accused the INEC and the APC of manipulating election results in favour of Mr Tinubu.
Dakuku Peterside to speak at African University on Nigeria’s leadership role in Africa
Ethylene oxide is a colourless, odourless gas that is used to sterilise medical devices and spices and has been described as a cancer-causing chemical.
Mr Tinubu who contested the 25 presidential election on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), faced five separate petitions challenging his victory in the wake of his declaration by INEC as the winner of the poll.
The consequences of eroded public interest are potentially catastrophic, the IFPIM warns, with serious implications for electoral politics, corruption, and meeting the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which are increasingly endangered by growing misinformation.
Mr Akpabio, who spoke with reporters on Sunday after a visit to Mr Buhari at the Presidential Villa, said he went to present his certificate of return as a senator-elect for Akwa Ibom North-West District to the president.
Easter is the celebration of the resurrection of Jesus Christ by Christians worldwide.
Abubakar Makki (APC, Jigawa) and Tunji Raheem (APC, Kwara) also pulled out of the race alongside Mr Doguwa
Eight other countries with high maternal, neonatal , and stillbirths are Pakistan, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ethiopia, Bangladesh, China, Indonesia, Afghanistan, and the United Republic of Tanzania.
The minister, who was also a spokesperson for the Tinubu-Shettima Presidential Campaign Council (PCC), had filed his suit on 20 January, asking for an order compelling the EFCC, ICPC and the Code of Conduct Bureau (CCB) to probe and prosecute Atiku following claims by one of his ex-aides, Michael Achimugu, against him.
Police arrest suspected serial killer, ritualist in Ogun, reject N1m bribe
In the appeal dated 3 November 2022, the IPOB leader sought an order of the Supreme Court setting aside the decision of the Court of Appeal made on 28 October.
In a move to reduce the sufferings of the people, the Senate, through a motion sponsored by Akon Eyakenyi, a senator from the area, passed a resolution on 29 March calling on the CBN to get the commercial banks in Oron to resume operations in the area.
Speaking on the same matter, Victor Akande (Ojo I) observed that the situation happened in the judiciary where an appointment was done without recourse to the House.
I received a report from Collation Officers in the area that election did not hold.
The statement was a reaction to a piece of viral news on social media that the apex bank was contemplating the withdrawal of the recently redesigned N1,000 N500 and N200 currency banknotes from circulation.
He invested everything he had into education and law in Egbaland, Nigeria and the world as judge of the world court in the Hague.
The senator urged the Senate to mandate security agencies in the country to investigate the attacks and fish out the perpetrators.
Thousands of cocoa farmers in Odigbo Local Government Area of Ondo State have appealed to the state government to reconsider its moves to evict them from a government forest reserve.
The Murtala Muhammed Foundation is one of Nigeria’s largest charitable foundations with operational expertise across the six key geopolitical zones of the Federation and programs that address the most significant economic and social challenges of our time.
May the power of our Risen Christ be upon us
Mr Tinubu, the APC candidate, was on 1 March declared the winner of the 25 February presidential election.
The committee also demanded the specifications for each of the contracts that were awarded and listed in the 91-page document submitted by NCC.
One of the candidates identified simply as Esther said the candidates scheduled for 9 a.m. went into the hall at around 10:26 a.m.
Mbadinuju died on Tuesday at the National Hospital, Abuja.
The APC spokesperson in the state said it was aware of “Governor Wike’s plot to prank our President-elect into believing his false narrative that there is no other opposition political party existing in Rivers State,” and added that “Rivers people already know this is not the correct situation on the ground.”
Took it to Godwin at Shop C19, Emab Plaza.
“There must be an end to the exchange of processes,” she said.
At present, the 614 km gas pipeline is 43 per cent completed.
Pangolin scales are used in the manufacture of finger and toe nails.
“This is not a joke at all.
He must answer all the questions the new regime may have for him particularly when he still has some months left of his tenure.
Speaking on the project, CJID’s Executive Director, Tobi Oluwatola, said that foreign direct investment is one of the major potential sources of constructive capital, if well managed, but capital flows to Nigeria often shrouded in opacity may threaten institutions of the state, and foster corruption.
Lagos lawmakers order the withdrawal of letters given to government appointees whose nominations were not sent to the House for screening and confirmation
He commended the patrol team and the entire personnel in the Osun command, assuring them of continued welfare to the staff across the county.
FUBK is a federal government-owned university established in 2013 alongside those located in Gashua, Yobe State, and Gusau in Zamfara State.
We encourage all readers to participate and share their valuable insights with us.”
Timothy Amakum were also at the Sallah homage.
In the neighbouring Rivers State, the federal government had in 2016 launched the cleanup of the heavily polluted Ogoni land, five years after the United Nations Environmental Programme made the recommendation in its 2011 report.
Hope for millions as Nigeria approves malaria vaccine
Lives should be protected.
The police on Monday, opened trial in the case involving alleged forgery of a Supreme Court judgement by the National Chairman of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), Edozie Njoku, and another person.
“On my way back, he (Bebex) called me, …name your price.
Mr Sambo said there was a need for the cooperation of all to keep the party members together.
Russia has been ordered to pay around $142.7 million in compensation to Georgia, almost 15 years after the war in the South Caucasus.
Delivering the judgment, Mr Omotosho held that under Article 3 (e) of the Preamble to the Fundamental Rights (Enforcement Procedure) Rules, anyone could bring fundamental human rights matters on his own interest, on behalf of another person or even in public interest.
His participation in the Presidential Election Petition Court panel is a pivotal turn in his career, placing him on a national, if not global stage where the public can gain insights into the workings of his judicial mind for the first time.
“The whole exercise in those 17 polling units were marred by violence as materials were either hijacked, disrupted, or people were being chased, among other things of that nature.
But aside from the pomp, pageantry and public relations, do they work?
Chinese nationals in the mining sector are allegedly funding Nigerian militant groups to secure access to the country’s mineral reserves, a report has said.
PREMIUM TIMES also tallied results from Degema Local Government Area uploaded on the IReV, and the findings confirmed Mr Tinubu won in the council area, although the score was slightly lower than the one announced by INEC.
The Chairman of the Police Service Commission (PSC), Solomon Arase, has pledged to end the feud existing between the commission and the Nigeria Police Force.
Persons with albinism, those on crutches can still serve as presiding officers, assistant presiding officers,” he said.
St. Paul eloquently said that the idea of the resurrection was foolishness to the Greeks and a stumbling block to the Jews (1 Cor.
“I don’t know why many of them don’t like putting on uniforms?
The complicated structure and lifecycle of the malaria parasite have long stymied efforts to develop vaccines.
He also stated that the APC should reward North-central for its role in the last election.
“Its therefore alarming shocking and strange when discovered that the Clerk/Head of Legislative Service, the Deputy Clerk and Executive Secretary Assembly Service Commission who are all our members were not only denied their due salaries, in consonance with Ogun State Assembly Service Commission Law, 2018 section 10 (2)13 and 14 but other allowances attached to their office as well were equally denied.
The ruling was a result of a request by Mr Njoku to have the error corrected.
The Corps Marshal of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Dauda Biu, has advised vehicle owners and operators to ensure routine and regular maintenance of their vehicle to prevent accidents.
While many of the girls escaped in the days that followed the abduction, others were released after ransoms were allegedly paid to Mr Gide’s gang and allegedly in exchange for some of Mr Gide’s fighters who were arrested by the authorities.
Its symptoms include fever, headache, sore throat, general body weakness, cough, nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, muscle pains, chest pain, and in severe cases, unexplainable bleeding from ears, eyes, nose, mouth and other body openings.
He chairs Nigeria’s third biggest bank by assets, UBA, where he is the biggest shareholder, wielding a 6.4 per cent stake worth N17.2 billion at market close on Thursday.
Other candidates affected by the development, according to the board, are candidates with mismatched data as well as those whose centres could not carry their full capacity of 250 and, such, had to be “batched with some of these centres taking 150 candidates rather than the 250 allotted to them per session.”
Tinubu’s history is not entirely clean.
It said Ibrahim Farinloye, Lagos Territorial Coordinator National Emergency Management Agency, (NEMA), confirmed the incident in an interview with the news agency on Wednesday in Lagos.
Mr Okowa who currently is on pilgrimage to Israel, was represented by the Secretary to the State Government, Patrick Ukah, on Monday at an event to mark 2023 May Day (Workers’ Day) in Asaba.
He urged the labour movement to continue to sustain the atmosphere of industrial peace and harmony under the incoming administration of President-elect, Bola Tinubu.
“Workers must now rise and ensure that they champion any discussion on subsidy removal.”
The court was, however, renamed the “Federal High Court” by Section 228 (1) and 230 (2) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1979.
In the the presidential election of 25 February, the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, polled 288,679 votes to defeat the President-elect, Bola Tinubu of the All Progressives Congress (APC), who polled 285,444 votes.
She wrote the book through her Non-Governmental Organisation(NGO), Murtala Muhammed Foundation (MMF).
“I believe that you are best in class because the last election showed that you have to be good to your people for you to emerge as successful.
The Director of Press and Public Relations, Ministry of Labour and Employment, Olajide Oshundun, said this in a statement on Saturday in Abuja.
“I do not treat this declaration lightly, Distinguished Senator.
The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has called on the Inspector General of Police, Usman Baba, to immediately order the arrest of the Resident Electoral Commissioner of INEC in Adamawa State, Hudu Ari, for declaring illegal results of the supplementary governorship election in the state.
It also holds data for more than 1 million displaced persons across the six states of northeast and Zamfara, and a further 6.8 million informal sector workers living in urban areas nationwide, affected by social and economic shocks.
You don’t rob it in their faces that they should understand, no.
The APC National Chairman, Abdullahi Adamu, says the party will liaise with the President-elect Bola Tinubu about the 10th National Assembly leadership.
The leader of the community added that the government was yet to tackle the challenge being faced by residents of the community over the ocean surge which was threatening their lives and property.
Norvasc is used for treatment of high blood pressure.
“In one pocket of Zamfara, researchers found, interaction with militants runs so deep that some serve as runners for Chinese miners who have spread throughout Nigeria, controlling digs for gold.
Mr Danmadami said the troops also apprehended no fewer than 59 terrorists and kidnappers, as well as their collaborators, while 118 abducted victims across the theatres of operation were rescued within the period.
He added that Ms Waziri-Azi, while speaking on the development, expressed grave concerns about the incremental cases of sextortion.
He commiserated with families of victims of the attack and assured the US Embassy in Nigeria of his administration’s commitment to the safety and security of its officials in the state.
Held over the whole of Saturday, the 2023 Ibrahim Forum focused on Global Africa.
He added that he is optimistic about clinching the position because of his experience as a legislator.
Buhari returns to Abuja after 8-day visit to Saudi Arabia
The TRACE officer, Popoola Olasupo, was on Sunday abducted at Fidiwo axis on the Lagos-Ibadan expressway.
“We, therefore, urge members of the public to disregard any report suggesting a phase-out of the redesigned currency.
He said: “We understand the news about Malaysia and Taiwan is raising doubts about the products in Nigeria, so we will work with these agencies to ensure doubts are cleared among Nigerian consumers.
The prosecution also alleged that the defendant inflicted grievous harm on Bolanle Ogunbunmi, Ayomide Shobowale, Sarah Adeleye, Abiola Olarewaju, Esther Ekundayo, Samuel Fagbola and Ismail Bakare.
Ms Iringe-Koko, a superintendent of police, said the officers involved in the incident had been identified, and that the police commissioner has ordered their immediate arrest.
“If we don’t have a monarch we can’t have a Chief Imam and we want to have an Imam.
“You are always at peace.
Mr Jalige said police personnel have intensified patrols along the road to forestall future occurrences.
President Muhammadu Buhari will depart for London, United Kingdom later today, Wednesday, 3 May to join other world leaders invited to attend the coronation of Charles III and his wife, Camilla, as His Majesty The King and Her Majesty The Queen Consort of the United Kingdom respectively.
The apex Igbo socio-cultural organisation, Ohanaeze Ndigbo has criticised Nigeria’s President-elect, Bola Tinubu, for not including Igbo people in his transition committee.
They face a three-count charge of felony, unlawful murder and arson.
He called on the public to continue to support the OPSH with necessary information needed to effectively deal with the security concerns in the area.
At a point, he had to release a short video clip of him walking out to address the speculations on his health.
H2 claimed it was Joseph “Zizar” Marzah who committed the ritual murders in Lofa.
The group accuses the court of not being neutral in the IPOB leader’s case.
It was a conversation.
“I call on states in the country to remove their embargo on the employment of health workers and to invest in hiring more health workers which is a barrier to our vision of achieving universal health coverage and improved quality of care,” he said.
Members voted in support of the motion when it was put to vote by the Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila.
He added that “I have been in various caucuses—South-west meeting, new members caucus and minority caucus.
The lawyer for the Nigerian government said there was no doubt that Murray should not have had the documents in his possession.
“Based on the annual estimate, the onion produced in Nigeria amounted to more than N700 billion but about 40 to 50 per cent of the product worth over N300 billion is wasted to post-harvest losses.
“We hope that you will all continue to stay involved in Nigeria’s political process and to advocate for issues that you believe in.
He said that candidates who were present and screened for the examination but could not sit for it had been rescheduled to retake the mock examination on 18 April.
Soft, who is also a fashion model, was dressed in a glittering denim outfit and danced to instrumentals played by the DJ.
“Many of you have seen the deplorable accommodations our students live in.
Outright misinformation and disinformation competing incessantly and compelling the concerned to do rebuttals to the discomfort of the world.
“Has the United States once again decided that what matters in Africa is not democracy but stability.
More broadly, it compares the total number of people of voting age in a country and those who cast their ballot during a particular election.
“I want to say that the federal government should suspend the issue of census because it looks like the proposed census is coming with an agenda.
The group asked Mr Uzodinma, who is seeking a re-election in the 11 November governorship election in the state, to announce his withdrawal from the governorship race.
“Forget about what the rumour mill may have told you.
“From 2017 to date, the former Minister of Power conspired with other staff of the Ministry in charge of the accounts of the Zungeru and Mambilla Hydro Electric Power Project, diverted over N22 billion naira, and shared it amongst themselves,” a source said.
Meanwhile, Nigeria is listed as one of the countries in the African region that did not respond to at least one module in all rounds of the pulse survey and is included in the trending analysis.
However, Nigerians believe that the new notes, in circulation though, which were hard to get at the time of release, have gradually vanished.
The presidency said President Muhammadu Buhari recognised the verdict as well as the role of the judiciary in deepening rule of law and democracy.
Airlines on ground at the airport were all burnt today, there is a curfew in place and no flights can operate.”
Last year, he was appointed as a member of the Advisory Board of Mundus Journalism, part of the wider Erasmus Mundus Master’s initiative of the European Union.
26: 58).
“There are three indigenous goat breeds in the franchise programme namely the West African dwarf, the Savannah, and the large Sahel goats,” it said, adding: “The large Sahel goat is a dual-purpose goat with a diary capacity of 0.5 litres per day for between 90 to 100 days.”
“So instead of them to keep spending what they are making on Product A to augment Product B and C, they will rather exit those lines to focus on A.
“When the governors persisted, he told them that the matter was no longer within his purview and that they may need to approach the Head of Service of the Federation.
I told him that I would rather wait for the panel to complete its task and present their findings, as I was sure I had done nothing wrong.”
However, Mr Daniel Ashang, a staff of state Ministry of Information, said Ayade’s action in the twilight of his administration meant he did not care for the interest of workers.
The Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) Commission has launched the West Africa Unique Identification for Regional Integration and Inclusion (WURI) programme.
“I wanted to call out to the US for what I consider two faces when it comes to Africa.
Emkei mailer is used to forge or create fake emails.
In a communique jointly issued on Monday by the NLC National General Secretary, Emmanuel Ugboaja and his TUC counterpart, Nuhu Toro, the labour unions alleged that agents of the Imo State Government carried out the attack against the workers in the state.
Group launches Public Interest Media Fund to safeguard Press Freedom, Democracy
The Attorney of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, has agreed to appear before the House of Representatives committee investigating the “missing” 48 million barrels of crude oil.
He asked this reporter to forward the letter to him on WhatsApp which has been done.
“Election is time-bound, let us not waste unnecessary time, let us cooperate with each other so that everyone will leave here satisfied.
PREMIUM TIMES learnt that Governor Makinde, who was seeking reelection, however, decided to put the process on hold until after the general election.
While speaking at the site of the collapsed seven-storey building, he blamed the unfortunate incident on the irresponsibility of the developers and some of the citizens that just wanted to make quick money.
If you asked me and would say everything begins and ends with Godswill Akpabio.
The force spokesperson had informed Nigerians on Monday via Twitter about the arrest of the officers, and that they would be brought to the Force Headquarters, Abuja, the next day (Tuesday) for “further actions”.
They were all sentenced to death by hanging without an option of fine,” the spokesperson said.
Even Islam as a religion doesn’t like that a group of people will be living without a definite leader among them,” the cleric said.
It said the fact that the officers who were indicted by Mr Emeh in his revelations were among his interrogators “offends the principle of natural justice, which espouses that one should not be a judge” in his own case.
God, please save my life,” Ms Iwang wrote on her Facebook page at 9:13 p.m. on Monday.
A confusion about the legal representative of the party ensued when the party’s case was called.
The offence contravenes Section 245 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015.
It also mandated the committee to turn in its report of the investigation in two weeks.
This, he also, said was also connected to and sharing information with relevant agencies and Nigerian Missions abroad.
Mr Yara explained to Sun Newspaper the helicopter video was taken when Mr Tinubu was a guest of the ousted president of Guinea during thr country’s independence anniversary celebration in 2016.
Referencing Sections 131 (C) and 142 of the constitution, the petitioner said Mr Masari “withdrew his purported nomination thereby invalidating the nomination” of Mr Tinubu as APC’s presidential candidate.
Mr Maikyau also urged members of the legal profession to take advantage of the opportunities provided by the NBA employment bureau, even as the association works to resolve issues of workers’ remuneration.
She said the victims were rescued at Udulu Forest, Gegu LGA of Kogi State, bordering Sardauna Forest, Nasarawa State, and other identified kidnappers’ dens in communities contiguous to the FCT.
However, the fact that some of the drivers chose to go to another border post (about 200 km) away from the approved entry point, we have raised another team to go there and assist.”
“We pray that the defendants be discharged and not acquitted,” he said.
On the other hand, Cross River had 27 per cent followed by Borno at 26 per cent; Delta at 22 per cent; and Ebonyi, at 22 per cent.
The Police Service Commission (PSC) on Wednesday, met with a delegation of the United Nation Development Programme, UNDP and the German Government during which it canvassed upport and productive partnership in improving policing in Nigeria in line with the ongoing police reforms.
“However, he has betrayed the trust of many Nigerians who before now hold him in high esteem.
A Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) officer has been captured on video hitting a motorist who had confronted him for allegedly damaging his car’s windscreen in Osun State.
“That by staying execution of a judgment that was essentially declaratory, the lower court which ought to defend the integrity of the judicial process literally overruled itself and vacated its own judgement even before the apex court has heard it” Mr Ozekhome argued.
He added that the plan was to frustrate Labour Party’s destined victory at the tribunals and also to derail the country’s fledgling democracy.
The Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, says the Lagos-Ibadan expressway will be completed by April 30 but the Abuja-Kano one will not be completed before the transition to the next administration.
Supporting Mr Adams, Ademola Kasunmu (Ikeja I) said the stipulations of Section 198 should be strictly adhered to by the state government.
According to a statement signed by a president’s spokesperson, Garba Shehu, the duo “reviewed the unfortunate situation and called on all neighbouring countries and the international community to prevail on the warring sides to stop fighting and negotiate.”
That report quoted Malami as saying that no journalists had been killed in the country “arising from infractions, relating thereto.”
After multiple agitations proved futile, legislation became the last hope in getting the dichotomy abolished, NATE President, Dominic Idoatan, said at a briefing on Friday.
Serving me is very difficult.”
She noted that AMS has been very successful in promoting antimicrobials’ appropriate use by implementing evidence-based interventions.
“This will require the provision of adequate and timely investments to build resilient energy systems capable of delivering energy to support socio-economic development in a sustainable manner,” he said.
The condition reflects the ordeal of many manufacturers in Africa’s largest economy who turn to the parallel market, where the dollar sold for N740.6 at 11:05 WAT, according to @naira_rates, compared to N462.5 on the official market because the latter did not have enough to meet demand.
In her remarks, Senate Committee on Aviation Chairperson, Biodun Olujimi, explained that Nigeria’s aviation sector is bedevilled with several challenges, adding that the problem is that Nigeria cannot enforce many of its laws.
He added that the recent acquisition will help in securing the territorial integrity of Nigeria.
Besides, the AGF argued that the suit did not have a reasonable cause of action, while insisting that the plaintiff lacked locus to file the matter.
No plans to phase out redesigned Naira notes – CBN
But the source confirmed that the management of the examination body had at the weekend deliberated on the challenges being faced at its offices, especially in Lagos, and decided to extend the deadline to “ensure that every qualified and willing applicant is duly registered.”
PREMIUM TIMES reported that the governors of the ruling APC proposed a zoning formula that involves zoning of the Speaker to the North-west or North-central geo-geopolitical zones.
“The nature of entry of the respondent (Mr Kanu) is not relevant in the determination of the merit of the charges,” the government submitted.
The US has stressed humility and partnership, attempting to listen rather than lecture.
“But, I don’t have to do it working in government.
EXCLUSIVE: JAMB to extend registration for direct entry
a. Mrs. Funke Egbemode, Chairperson
But, the vice president-elect, Kashim Shettima, on Friday said the nominations were considered in order to ensure that the party balances religion in the political leadership of the country.
Labour Party secures majority in Enugu House of Assembly – INEC
The stunning young singer made her debut performance on a big stage that night singing alongside Davido who has signed her to his label.
The women will have a sizable chunk in whatever comes out of the party.
“The gesture has achieved tremendous milestones in the development and growth of Nigeria’s industrial sector.
“So I asked, ‘What am I holding?
Let me remind Mr. President of the magnitude of violence, ballot snuffing, snatching and manipulations of result from the collation centres using security agencies, which included police, army amongst others as well as thugs to manipulate elections in favour of the ruling party.
“It is instructive for INEC and the APC to note that the tribunal hearing is part of the electoral process.
Since the beginning of the Fourth Republic, Nigeria has enjoyed uninterrupted democracy for 24 years, the longest stretch since its independence in 1960.
I assure you we are not going to have any issue.
Meanwhile, a student identified as Samuel Bamiduro who was scheduled for the 9 a.m. batch at Lagooz schools developed a health challenge shortly before the examination.
The upper legislative chamber also observed a minute silence in memory of the dead victims.
The Corps Marshal, however, called on governments at all levels and partners to rethink mobility with a mindset to provide access to safe and affordable mobility systems for all.
Two of the aspirants, Smart Adeyemi and Shuaibu Abubakar, a son of former Kogi State governor, Abubakar Audu, have filed two suits at the Federal High Court in Abuja challenging the primary election.
Jigawa State in the north-west had a turnout of 45 per cent, Adamawa State in the north-east had a 43 per cent turnout, followed by Sokoto State in the north-west with 41 per cent.
Afterwards, she was invited for an interview with the Immigration and Naturalisation Service (INS) alongside her spouse concerning the bona fides of their marriage.
Alleged Blasphemy: European Parliament urges Nigerian govt to release Kano singer, Sharif-Aminu, others
“For example, while cost of electricity in Nigeria is 15 cent per kilowatt , it is 42 cent in Niger Republic, 23 cent in Republic of Benin , 25 cent in Mali , 28 cent in Senegal , 27 cent in Burkina Faso etc.”
In approving his appointment, Mr Buhari took note of a precedent in which a former executive member, Kamal Subair, was retained in service by the Federal Government of Nigeria after retirement in 2018.
“There are water projects that have been awarded under the second phase amounting to N22.8 billion.
They reported at the Force Headquarters today.
The qualification date is 9 May, while payment is scheduled for 24 May.
He, however, added that there is a bill on budgeting in the National Assembly, noting that the current Assembly should try to pass it before the Assembly adjourns sina dine.
NAN reports that the unions issued a 14-day ultimatum to the Ministry of Aviation and specific aviation parastatal agencies on 7 February over non-implementation of the minimum wage consequential adjustments and arrears for NiMet.
Responding to Mr Tinubu’s reply to his petition, Atiku noted that, unlike Mr Tinubu, he had been able to vie for the presidency without any controversy.
The Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFund) has allocated N30 billion for disbursement to six universities, six polytechnics and six colleges of education under its 2023 Special High Impact intervention.
RE: PRESIDENT BUHARI’S BENUE RECORD SPEAKS FOR ITSELF.
No airs about him.
A police source told PREMIUM TIMES that the politician was kidnapped and his orderly was shot dead while he was travelling to the council headquarters.
“The hunger crisis worsens already bad situation for many families struggling with economic hardship, surging inflation, impacts of Russia-Ukraine war, the currency redesign policy, slow post-COVID-19 recovery and unprecedented floods in 2022, which limited agricultural production and overall food availability.
Mr Abdulwahab admitted being invited for the job but said it was his first involvement in robbery.
According to the News Agency of Nigeria, Mr Mohammed described the reports as “irresponsible and reckless.”
World Immunisation Week 2023: Firm seeks post-COVID-19 catch-up against vaccine-preventable diseases
But reacting, Obeagu Awkunanaw Land Committee said the consent judgement was obtained by the government without recourse to the community as “customary owners of the properties” despite applying to be joined in the matter.
In his motion, Mr Ogun explained that NCC charges telecom operators 2.5 per cent of their turnover as licensing fees, of which 40 per cent of the licensing fees is transferred to the designated fund called USPF.
Aviation minister insists Nigerian Air will commence operation before May 29
He urged Nigerians and foreigners resident in the country to display high sense of citizenship and public spiritedness by supporting the efforts of the security agencies.
This is not true.
“As you are aware for the past three months, we have made an appeal fund for us to gather money to get our children back
“These warnings were not heeded,” the statement said.
The source, however, noted that the examination body is reluctant to announce the extension so that candidates would not go “and relax again, and then wait for the last minute rush.”
“Operatives attached to Moniya Area Command under the Oyo State Police Command, while on lawful intelligence led Stop and Search around a major black spot, were attacked in the line of duty,” Mr Osifeso narrated.
Fintiri appreciates Adamawa electorate, lauds INEC over his re-election
This is to serve as a deterrent to others and help build confidence in our elections, Mr Gumel said.
The 2023 edition has the theme: ‘’Workers Rights and Socio-Economic Justice’’.
We sold off our properties and and got assistance from Nigerians to get the money,” he said.
God, please save my life,” a journalist in Uyo, Nora Iwang, who said she was trapped along Nwaniba Road, wrote on her Facebook page at 9:13 p.m. on Monday.
Mr Ogakwu stated that the region has qualified candidates for the position, noting that “there is a sense of alienation and marginalisation amongst the people of the Zone by the APC.”
They made away with my laptop,” a voice, believed to be that of a disc jockey, contracted to play music at the event, was heard in the background of the video.
As Nigeria’s chief law officer, the Attorney-General said the parliament has powers to “make, amend, alter and repeal Acts and laws” it had enacted.
What if we were operating the parliamentary system where the prime minister must answer tough questions weekly in parliament?
“Education is ‘Madubi’, a mirror or looking glass through which we can view not just a reflection of the girl child’s potential but that of the entire society.
The divisional police officer of Olosan Division Mushin in Lagos has been removed over professional misconduct by his officers.
“We heard some workers are already receiving their February salaries and we urged you to ensure all workers are paid before you leave office.
A group of former lawmakers from the region, on Sunday, rejected the proposed zoning of the speaker and deputy senate president to the North-west.
The day he decides to be reasonable, the day he decides to make peace in the party in Akwa Ibom State, there will be peace.
“That, I think you will find, has been the law for a very long time, Mr. Murray.”
The Indigenous People of Biafra, a group leading the agitation for the creation of an independent state of Biafra in the South-east and some parts of South-south, has been accused of being responsible for the deadly attacks in the two regions.
With the adoption, the party has shut out the North-central zone from the National Assembly leadership despite protests by the zone.
In a separate letter seen by PREMIUM TIMES, the NBC said the action of the NCC, advertising a frequency band that is exclusively allocated for broadcasting by ITU, is an illegality.
The APC said allegations of non-compliance must be made distinctly and proved on polling unit basis.
The court, in July, also convicted a Nigerian actor, Olanrewaju James, alias Baba Ijesha, of sexually assaulting a 14-year-old girl.
“Now, a lot of that is connected to training together, sharing tactics and techniques,” Mr Heappey said.
Similarly, owners of motor vehicles operating on Nigeria roads and members of the public are hereby notified that the new procedure for requesting the Nigeria Police Force Central Motor Registry services such as Motor Vehicle Information, Change of Ownership, Change of Engine/Chassis/Body, Change of Colour, International Motor Vehicle Certificate, International Drivers’ Permit, etc.
He pointed out that the IGP has sent similar funds to the police in the state within the last three months.
A five-member panel of the court headed by Haruna Tsammani adjourned the petition until 17 May following a request by Mr Obi’s lawyer.
It directed Mr Gazali to file the appellant’s brief within six days from Thursday.
11:35am: Court calls another petition filed by Action Peoples Party (APP)
An aspirant for the speakership of the House of Representatives, Muktar Betara, has offered a full scholarship to the son of Ismaila Maihanci, a member-elect of the House, who died recently.
“You would remember three years ago, NARD was on strike, and that was enforced, that is to tell you that we are ready.
“The attention of the Commission has been drawn to a purported declaration of winner in the Adamawa Governorship election by the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) even when the process has clearly not been concluded,” he said.
About 16 million people, a third of Sudan’s population, need humanitarian aid.
“That Ahmadu Fintiri of the PDP having satisfied the requirements of the law is hereby declared the winner and is returned elected.”
The ministries said 637 of them were conveyed in 13 buses and have arrived at the Egyptian border where they are undergoing necessary documentation and clearance before admission into Egypt for their eventual evacuation to Nigeria.
He also disclosed that some Nigerians have already been evacuated by ship by the government of Saudi Arabia.
“I set out with a vision and mission to de-escalate and contain the raging conflict, douse the disquiet and restore peace, understanding and cooperation between the two institutions,” he added.
However, despite the losses, the region still delivered the highest votes for the APC at the presidential election.
And so you have somebody who emerged and is recognised as the chairman of the party in the state who didn’t win the congress, and everybody saw that he didn’t win,” he said.
The federal government has approved the use of Eagle Square for the annual May Day parade for workers in the FCT.
IPOB is leading agitation for an independent state of Biafra which it wants carved out from the South-east and some parts of the South-south Nigeria
Among the Think tanks the minister engaged with on the just concluded 2023 polls were, Hudson Institute, The Atlantic Council and Wilson Institute.
In the filings, the APC recalled that the Labour Party conducted its presidential primary on 30 May 2022, which purportedly produced Mr Obi as its presidential candidate.
The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, has approached the Presidential Election Petition Court (PEPC) seeking an order allowing live broadcast of proceedings of his petition.
Similarly, Mr Malama railed against Ibrahim Magu, a former acting chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC).
He said the existing colours had been excessively involved in multiple operations in various geopolitical zones of the country as well as foreign countries hence desiring retirement.
After the 2003 elections, the polity became a one-party dominant system with the PDP in control of large swathes of the country, the ANPP with reduced influence in the North and the AD reduced to controlling only Lagos State in the South-West.
FL746B Gaube Farmland Extension II Layout, Kuje, Abuja; a piece of land located at Commercial Layout, Yenagoa Gardens, Bayelsa State; one hectre of land in Kuje District, Abuja; Plot No.
Mr Aruwan said in the year under review, 648 people were injured during the attacks while 11,714 animals were rustled.
The judge also directed that the surety must deposed to an affidavit of means
Mr Olawuyi said, if elected, he will prioritise bills that are aimed at improving the lives of our constituents such as affordable healthcare, security, education and job creation, while fostering a spirit of bipartisanship and cooperation in the House.
He said all members-elect were invited to the meeting.
Mr Oluwole said the youth want sanity restored to the body.
Moussa Faki Mahamat, Chairperson of the African Union Commission, said: “Africa’s population will more than double by 2100, its youth will be half of the world’s youth.
Their recent victory at the West African Football Union (WAFU) tournament demonstrated their potential, and now they are setting their sights on a triumphant U-17 AFCON campaign and World Cup qualification.
He is a petrol attendant at Awabat in Ijokun.”
In January, the Director-General of the DMO, Patience Oniha, said that Nigeria’s total debt stock rose to N44.06 trillion as of the end of September 2022, largely reflecting the weakness of the local unit, Naira.
No reason was given for the replacement of Mr Ararume’s name.
The petitioners include the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) with its presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, and the Labour Party, with its candidate, Peter Obi.
Gross earnings were up by 18 per cent at N209.1 billion, non-interest income contributing two-fifths of that sum.
In May 2021, Nigeria’s central bank devalued the naira by 7.6 per cent against the dollar in a march towards a uniform foreign exchange rate as advised by the International Monetary Fund.
He came to Nigeria to see Tinubu, who organised a dinner in his honour.
• Ifeanyi Patrick Uba Anambra South
He said INEC provided less than 30 per cent of the documents in Rivers and Sokoto states.
“It was the final day we parted—he and me,” said Defence 10, as he faced a lengthy questioning from prosecutors and judges in his one-hour testimony on Tuesday.
Ms Onuoha, who is the only female in the race, appeared at the declaration to inform the male lawmakers that in the event the position is zoned to the South-east, Mr Doguwa and his supporters should back her.
The petitioner further accused Mr Tinubu of deliberately refusing to respond to serious issues raised in the petition.
The Director, Defence Media Operations, Musa Danmadami, said this on Thursday in Abuja at the bi-weekly news conference on the operations of the armed forces.
The commission also continued with the collation of results where the incumbent, Ahmadu Fintiri, of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) emerged winner of the election.
“Just woke up in the US to this wonderful news.
“Without doubt, more than 80 per cent of Nigerians will be denied access to television broadcasting which serves as the authentic source of accurate information, public enlightenment and solely source of entertainment.
They will also receive N25,000 worth of call vouchers and a data bundle (1.5 GB) from MTN.
“Both the injured and those who died have been taken to the General Hospital in Ogoja by officers of the FRSC.”
The All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate in the Adamawa governorship election, Aisha Dahiru, popularly called “Binani,” on Wednesday withdrew the suit filed against the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC).
However, in the minority decision, the second member of the tribunal, P. A Ogbuli said the petitioners – Mr Oyetola and the APC – failed to prove that there were cases of over-voting in the governorship election.
The management has also ordered that the leadership of its security unit and the office of the Dean of Students’ Affairs should ensure compliance “and take action on all the decisions.”
The ANC’s decision to rescind its withdrawal from the ICC also noted that few African countries had ratified the Malabo Protocol.
The parents said their daughter left home in March to stay with the suspect, but described as “unfortunate” the ill-treatments the victim received from the suspect barely two months after they started living together.
In an exclusive New Narratives/FrontPage Africa interview a year ago, Marzah denied the allegations and blamed Benjamin Yeaten, then head of the Special Security Service, now Execurtive Protection Service for the alleged murders.
The gains achieved by low-skilled workers are higher when they move from a society with high socioeconomic inequalities to a country with fewer inequalities and where the difference in wages between low- and high-skilled workers is lower.”
Sudan’s paramilitary chief Mohamed Dagalo claimed to have seized most of Khartoum’s (capital of Sudan) official sites after clashes erupted between his armed group and the country’s military.
Another claim made by the president at the event was that the military in 2015 (when he came on board) its fighting power was at a low ebb and its firepower was ranked seventh in Africa.
We shall neither relent, slow down nor give up.
He said that his administration would embark on aggressive global investment, such as renewable energy and other businesses that would create more jobs for the people of the state.
The application for adjournment is accordingly refused.
The coalition says it has no candidate yet, but it is waiting for the APC zoning arrangement for the position of Speaker and deputy.
He called for better “societal values and definitive actions” from the political leaders and security agencies to reverse the trend.
Responding to reports that the Minister would write a book on her, she said: “I am happy and I look forward to his book.
“The Federal Government of Nigeria should improve the enforcement of regulations for construction, operation, maintenance, decommissioning, emergency response, and divestment of facilities, and host community development; and should commission a study into the impacts of gas production on host communities, design interventions to reduce and remediate these impacts, and hold poorly performing companies accountable,” it advised.
“There, she managed a $1 billion portfolio of complex lending and non-lending operations, which produced impactful and sustainable results.
It said the Federal High Court’s decision which Mr Kanu appealed against was interlocutory, that is, filed in the course of trial.
“APC is shopping for a court order to stop the continuation of the collation process.
She would join the incredible list, which features Paloma Faith, rock ‘n’ roll legend Steve Winwood, internationally renowned pianist Lang Lang and pop star Nicole Scherzinger, to perform on that day.
Huge numbers are being trafficked to Asia, despite a 2017 global trade ban on all eight pangolin species, and domestic legislation in Central African countries to protect and manage endangered wildlife.
Although he did not mention the comments made by Mrs Onochie concerning the project, Mr Igbifa urged the US-based company to disregard “any attempt” to discourage them from following up the agreement.
The IPOB leader was forcibly brought back from Kenya by the Nigerian government in June 2021 to face trial.
The collation resumed around 3:40 p.m. under heavy security presence at the INEC collation centre in Yola, the state capital.
Ogun traffic agency officer kidnapped on Lagos-Ibadan expressway
He said one person was critically injured while five others sustained various degrees of injuries and were being treated at a hospital.
The judge also ordered the defendant to deposit his international passport with the chief registrar of the court and ordered an accelerated hearing of the case.
The future of our country is in your hands.
They reached the quarter-final in 1997 and 2001 and exited in the group stage in 1999.
About 2,200 people including the royal family, world leaders, celebrities attended the event.
The leadership and members of the National Association of Polytechnic Students (NAPS), Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics (ASUP), and the Senior Staff Union of Polytechnics (SSANIP) among other groups have long described the policy as discriminatory and unfair.
Although the World Series doesn’t draw the massive numbers that it once did, it still remains one of the most popular events in sports.
Court dismisses suit by Anambra govt challenging EFCC’s power to probe its finances
He said the government needs to replace doctors that have left the country to distribute the workload.
Anongu Isaac Aondoakaa (FC Bathel Sporting)
He, however, pleaded not guilty to the charge.
Nonetheless, the capacity of an effective third force minority to play a key role in negotiations ahead of floor votes might counter the likelihood of defect for these politicians.
“The media community is also acknowledged for their partnership and continued cooperation with the military and other security agencies in our quest to restore peace and security to our dear country.
The committee chairman thanked all stakeholders in the state for the peaceful conduct of the governorship primary election.
“Agile is one intervention tackling multi-sectoral issues, it addresses the concerns on the demand and supply ends of education divide.
Many Nigerians migrate to Canada, the U.S., and European countries, in search of greener pastures.
The federal government had in 2021 announced plans to remove petroleum subsidy but the Minister of Finance, Zainab Ahmed, last week said the plans had been suspended, adding that the timing for the subsidy removal should not be now.
It argued that INEC “has a bounden statutory obligation to transmit all the results electronically and to upload same into the INEC Result Viewing Portal (IReV)…”
“At the completion of this, subscribers, Nigerians who so desire, will subscribe to an automatic fire alarm system that if you have in your house will raise an alarm at each of the fire services station nationwide, be it state or federal, to prompt firemen and officers to any such emergency.
The police spokesperson said the police chief had a meeting with “all parties in this case, community members, landlord association, councillor representing the area, the committee for the Defence of Human Rights (CDHR), Omolara and family, Bebex and his employees, and lawyers representing both sides are in attendance.”
Mr Yakubu claimed that the proposed arrangement may not be from the president-elect, but from some people around him that want to impose cronies.
Sources at the EFCC, who are familiar with the case but not permitted to speak publicly, told this newspaper that Mr Mamman was detained Wednesday morning after turning himself in at the commission’s office in Abuja.
Obi was different; he seemed honest and accessible, and his vision of anti-corruption and self-sufficiency gave rise to a movement of supporters who called themselves “Obi-dients”.
The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has denied refusing to obey the judgement of the Supreme Court on the national chairmanship of the All Progressives Ground Alliance (APGA).
When NAN contacted the police spokesperson in the state, Odiko MacDon, he said the police did not have information on the abduction.
The CPPE boss said it is difficult to justify the 40 per cent import duty on vehicles.
Benjamin Hundeyin, the police spokesperson in the state, made this known via his Twitter handle on Tuesday.
He said the officers acted unprofessionally, adding that police batons, teasers, and pepper spray are used to apply force.
Arguing further, the governor’s spokesperson wondered why Mr Buhari would blame Mr Ortom for the killings in Benue, but look away from the “massacres and kidnappings in Plateau, Southern Kaduna, Niger, Sokoto and Katsina the president’s home state.
Residents of Wanzamai village in Tsafe Local Government of Zamfara state have released the names of 85 people that were abducted by terrorists on Friday.
On 4 May 2012, he gave the judgment that restrained then-Governor Babatunde Fashola of Lagos State from going ahead with his plan to ban or restrict the operations of commercial motorcyclists in the state.
The BPE advises beneficiaries to strictly adhere to the dates and their respective designated centers as indicated in the published schedule.
The abduction of the monarch has thrown the village and other “safe” areas into confusion, according to, Ubaidullah Kaura, a resident of Kaura Namoda.
Elumelu becomes Transcorp’s biggest shareholder, amasses 9.7 billion shares
(a) subject to the provisions of section 28 of this Constitution, he has voluntarily acquirede the citizenship of a country other than Nigeria or, except in such cases as may be prescribed by the National Assembly, he has made a declaration of allegiance to such other country.”
“The Commissioner of Police, Olatoye Durosinmi has released additional tactical resources targeted at identifying culprits who are at large, their sponsors, and has vowed to bring them to book within the shortest time possible,” Mr Macdon said.
“I still retain the certificate of recognition by the government which gave me the power of Igwe, if somebody raises up as an impostor, he is on his own,” he said.
“We are not unmindful of our responsibilities as members of the Bar.
• Ibrahim Geidam – Yobe East
I insisted he must not be allowed to leave.
The ambassador explained that the terrorist act was followed by the rebel militia’s attack on the Al-Masalma Church in Omdurman.
Sudan is Africa’s most recent ground for exhibiting serial widowhood cry.
However, after the merger of junior secondary school to basic education, the bill was amended to become the National Senior Secondary Education Commission (NSSEC).
Goodwill messages were delivered at the occasion by a former governor of the state, Martin Elechi, representatives of the clergy, traditional rulers, among others.
However, Nigeria was no longer included in the 2020 index because it tracked only killings from the previous 10 years, and therefore no longer included a killing from 2009.
“TB patients should also adhere to their treatments to prevent drug resistance TB cases which are even more dangerous.
The 2023 session was brought to an early closure because the Imam of the State House Mosque had to go on a pilgrimage to Lesser Hajj in Saudi Arabia.
with the Northern part of the state.
Mr Omoregbe added: “I received reports from the collation officers that supposed to collate the result in the area, that election did not hold.
12:35pm: Wole Olanipekun announces appearance as lawyer to Mr Tinubu and vice president-elect, Kashim Shettima.
“His contributions to the development of our legal system cannot be overstated, serving as the Attorney General and Minister for Justice at a critical period in the nation’s history.
“The position of the party and the mechanism in the resolution of crises are very clear.
“The performance so far hasn’t reached the level we expected.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that journalists were not allowed by the NSCDC to disclose the identity and names of both the victim and the suspect due to the sensitivity of the case to avoid the victim’s stigmatisation.
“The easing of the cash shortage challenge in April saw improvement in both output and consumer demand,” Muyiwa Oni, Head of Equity Research West Africa at Stanbic IBTC Bank, said.
The One-Day International Cricket World Cup is an international tournament that takes place every four years.
Laws are supposed to reflect the wishes and aspirations of the people.
Governor Biodun Oyebanji, in April, after expressing concerns over the development, called on local governments and development councils in the state to synergise efforts with the state government and security agencies to fight the menace.
Conoil appears in the pick for currently trading below its intrinsic value, brightening its chances of good price appreciation in the future.
The first count alleged that Seplat Energy, its CEO, its chairman, Company Secretary Edith Onwuchekwa and directors including Charles Okehalam, Fabian Ajogwu, Rabiu Bello, Bashirat Odunewu and Emma Fitgerald (all of them defendants) conspired among themselves to allow Mr Brown accept employment as the CEO without the consent of the comptroller general of immigration.
PSC, among other things, seeks the support of the UNDP and Germany in the building of an automated police personnel database and conduct of a verification exercise on police personnel.
The Vice President-elect, Kashim Shettima, says the Asiwaju Bola Tinubu-led administration will give priority to gender issues.
Miriam Onuoha from Okigwe North Federal Constituency of Imo State is the only female aspirant for the position of Speaker of the Nigerian House of Representatives.
The police later released him after the mob was brought under control, with many of them peacefully dispersed.
Nigeria’s police chief redeploys DIG, 36 commissioners
Onuoha: Politics is a game of intrigues, it keeps evolving.
In 2001, Obi produced his first movie, titled, Take Me to Maama, where he starred as Jerry alongside Ebi Sam, the late Rachel Oniga, Nse Abel and the late Enebeli Elebuwa.
This process is still on-going.
The Jigawa State Judicial Service Commission has sacked an Upper Shari’ah Court judge for collecting monetary inducement from a litigant.
The Golden Eaglets of Nigeria are the most successful team in the tournament having made eight appearances and winning a record five FIFA U-17 World Cup titles (1985, 1993, 2007, 2013 and 2015).
The coalition also announced that Mr Kumo and Kingsley Chinda (PDP, Rivers) are the co-chairmen of the group while Mr Madaki is the Secretary.
A section of the community is angry because, since the demise of the former Alaafin, important cultural and traditional activities in the ancient kingdom have been put on hold.
”We will be visible in all the polling units in Kano, Katsina and Jigawa to carefully monitor the entire exercise during and after the elections.
When asked about his chances against other candidates from the south, Mr Izunaso said being a ranking senator places him in a strong position to clinch the position against the other candidates.
In this way, our long-awaited peace can come”.
Nigerian university bars students from driving on campus as union kicks
Candidates experience minimal technical hitches, slight delay as 2023 UTME kicks off nationwide
National Champions will also win an all-expenses-paid trip to represent Nigeria at the African Spelling Bee Competition in November in Ethiopia.
He explained that effective utilization of gas resources will enhance energy security and achieve net-zero emission goals in Nigeria.
The rest are those in Calabar, Ilorin Sokoto, Ibadan, Jos, Akure and Katsina.
We believe the other shots were meant to scare the people away,” Mr Ahmed, who is at the Federal Medical Centre Gusau with Mr Wada, said.
The Chairman of the EFCC briefed the President on efforts to conclude ongoing court cases and the plan to prosecute more offenders.
He said he had observed deliberate moves to de-market him by various persons including officials of the Nigerian government.
Alleged Amnesty Fraud: Court rejects ECOBANK’S motion against Nigerian govt
They were remanded at Suleja Correctional Centre and granted bail on 30 November 2022.
The party said the thugs sacked workers and party members who were at the secretariat at the time.
AMCON, which is established to recover bad debt on behalf of the federal government of Nigeria, has been in an endless court battle with Glano Nigeria Limited and its promoters since 2016 but had waited patiently till 2018.
Senate Presidency: Akpabio, Jibrin visit Katsina governor
“When we do that, we are not for anybody.
PREMIUM TIMES reported how the police in Kano arrested and charged the lawmaker, alongside others, for criminal conspiracy, and culpable homicide.
The Economic and Financial Crime Commission (EFCC) on Wednesday secured the final forfeiture of 324 properties misappropriated by the administration of a former governor of Kano State, Rabiu Kwankwaso.
They are only using these things… people only bring the issue of religion and tribe because they are not competent, because they don’t want to serve.”
She also did not participate in Nigeria’s election as a candidate or as eligible voter.
The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) has announced a new date for the commencement of the 2023 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examinations (UTME).
Ahead of the 29 May inauguration, Nigeria’s President-elect Bola Tinubu discussed strengthening US-Nigeria relations in a phone conversation with US Secretary of State Antony Blinken on Tuesday.
Mr Malami justified the move in an interview with PREMIUM TIMES in January this year.
The President-elect, Bola Tinubu, has congratulated the winners in Saturday’s supplementary elections across the country, urging them to brace up to serve the people with diligence and dedication.
“The Supreme Court and in deed all courts of the land have decried the use of self-help by litigants.
I will come back next week,” he said.
Full details of the counts:
Mr Ngige, who was reacting to the letter, delivered to his office at about 5 p.m. the same day, said he contacted the Minister of Health, who informed him that a meeting has been scheduled with the resident doctors on Wednesday.
Both Messrs Tinubu and Shettima are Muslims.
Mr Akande said a progress report presented at the meeting chaired by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo also indicated that 1.6 million smallholder farmers were impacted under the Agriculture for Jobs Plan.
“Another FCT contract is for the revised estimated cost of the contract for the provision of engineering infrastructure at Guzape District lot 11 in the FCT and the contract sum is N28 billion.
He emphasised that for the PDP to think that exerting unnecessary pressure and sending emissaries would make the APC withdraw the case from the tribunal, is just a fallacy.
However, following what an insider described as the failure of Mr Abakpa to satisfactorily defend the allegations, he was recommended for suspension by the board.
“They claim that they have evidence to nullify the election, we have ours and we are ever ready to meet them at the tribunal,” he stressed.
Outside zoning that might shut me out, if I make it to the floor, I will be the next speaker”.
“We do not comment on individual cases,” Chloe Newman, senior communications officer – Newsdesk Communications Directorate, stated in the reply on Thursday.
According to the Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NiDCOM), there are about 1,700 Nigerians awaiting evacuation which will be concluded in the coming days.
The elections were held in 31 federal constituencies and five senatorial districts.
NAN reports that Mr Usman-Ododo had emerged winner of the Kogi APC governorship primary election after the other five respondents including the Deputy Governor, Edward Onoja, and one other stepped down for him.
In the same vein, APC’s lawyer, Lateef Fagemi, a SAN, did not oppose the withdrawal of the petition.
The judge ordered that the case proceeds to trial on Counts 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 13 and 15.
He said that maintenance would address public concerns about the presence of potholes on the bridge.
c. Mr. Fred Ohwahwa, Senior Partner, Tokee Consult Limited
Sadly, Chimamandi’s letter is a reckless affront on our resolve not to be part of the “brain-drain” syndrome against our dear country Nigeria like the writer.
They have up to September to deliver their judgement, and a displeased party can still appeal to the Supreme Court.
The Chairman of the Committee, Mark Gbillah (LP, Benue), issued the summon on Wednesday during the public hearing on the matter at the National Assembly.
When the new monarch was installed, our elders paid him homage.
“He then told me my account had been hacked.”
Bearing your unique place in history as the first King to be inaugurated in Britain since 1937, I trust that you will follow in the glorious footsteps of your late mother and even surpass her achievements in the United Kingdom and the Commonwealth.
The experienced jurist began his journey on the bench with his appointment as a judge of the High Court of Bauchi State on 17 September 1998, about 24 years ago.
In arguing their case, the defendants argued that the Nigerian Supreme Court had “decriminalised” defamation.
What is at stake, ultimately is – Truth, and at a most elementary level of social regulation: when you are party to a conflict, you do not attempt to intimidate the arbiter, attempt to dictate the outcome, or impugn, without credible cause, his or her neutrality even before hearing has commenced.
Mr Gide and his gang originally abducted more than 100 pupils and some of their teachers.
Lagos govt to help police rebuild 25 barracks, facilities
Before joining PREMIUM TIMES in 2019, Mr Mojeed was an agriculture researcher with the Centre for Journalism Innovation and Development (CJID).
The group- Northern Christian Youth Professionals, in a statement signed by its Chairman, Isaac Abrak, also suggested non-kinetic approaches to fighting terrorism and strengthening school security.
Sallah: NSCIA sets up committee for moon sighting
More than five Twitter accounts were identified to be fake versions of the First Bank and GTB handles.
She did not even bother to go to court.
They alleged manipulation of the electoral process by INEC in favour of Mr Tinubu.
The housing deficit is still very high.
INTERVIEW: Why I challenged nullified sections of CAMA 2020 – Lawyer
Speaking on behalf of the Americans, Delzora Dotson, who is now to be addressed as Delzora Omotilewa Dotson, described the experience as worthwhile.
The returning officer, for the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Ibrahim Suraj, a professor, said Mr Shehu polled 19, 024 votes.
That compares with a net profit of N2.9 billion reported for the same period last year.
He said there was historic precedence for such when Olusegun Obasanjo-led Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) administration in 1999 deliberately zoned the senate presidency to the South-east.
The Minister of Health, Osagie Ehanire, has said state governments must invest in hiring more health workers if the country is to achieve Universal Health Coverage (UHC) by 2030.
He promised to release all the eleven students the last time we spoke with him over the phone.
• Abdulaziz Musa Yar’Adua – Katsina Central
She was in the hospital and my daughter said that about 40 soldiers invaded our house and tried to forcefully open the door before my house help opened the door.
Mr Sule said that though implementation had not reached expected levels, efforts were being made to touch each of the targeted 15 areas of implementation.
“That the name of “Chief Victor Oye” mentioned and set out on page 13 of the Judgement delivered by the Court on the 14th October 2021 in Appeal No.
Through my organisation, the Aisha Buhari Foundation, we partnered with an international surgical team, the Federal Medical Centre, Jabi, Abuja, and other institutions to fulfil this dream,” she said.
Mr Buhari had in a letter in 2022 requested that the N22.7 trillion Ways and Means loan should be converted to a 40-year bond with a moratorium of three years.
The dairy company had on Friday published an Easter message with a dented tin of Peak Milk pierced on two sides with a nail to depict the crucifixion of Jesus Christ.
The court consequently, struck out the suit for lack of jurisdiction.
The police commissioner said the five suspected IPOB members were killed when joint security operatives accosted them in Akwaihedi, a community in Nnewi South Local Government Area of the state.
Mr Wike, a member of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) after falling out with his party’s presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, backed Mr Tinubu in the presidential election.
Her survival depends on continuous dialysis for the rest of her life or a kidney transplant which she hopes to get soon.
Ben Kalu (Abia)
Be smart and stay safe,” the D-G advised.
The influence of governors means that this administration might require more deft engagement with the different parties, rather than the usual dismissal of the opposition that ruling groups tend to exhibit.
The victims have been given mass burial.
He said the CP urged officers of the police to sustain the onslaught against banditry and other forms of criminalities in the state.
According to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), up to 20,000 people have already fled to neighbouring Chad in the past few days.
Several countries including UK, Saudi Arabia, Ukraine, France amongst others have been able to evacuate their citizens from torn Sudan.
Musa Saidu, a member of the ACF, said this in a statement on Sunday in Abuja.
Mr Tsoho urged the judges to always discharge their duties with the fear of God.
The house was supervised by the UN-backed Special Court for Sierra Leone.
A coalition of Civil Society Organisations under the aegis of the Progressive Parliamentary Support Alliance (PPSA) has called on the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to zone the position of the deputy speaker of the 10th House of Representatives to the South-south.
Upholding Mr Adeleke’s victory in March, the Court of Appeal held that the tribunal’s wrong in its conclusion that that the election in some parts of the states was marred by over-voting, the pivotal legal issue thrown up in Mr Oyetola’s case.
Ekiti State Commissioner of Police said the police traced the suspect to Kogi State where he was arrested.
Mr Lawan had stated that the Senate will investigate the refusal of the president to assent to the 19 bills.
Mr Adejobi said the project of giving officers and men befitting accommodation, an initiative of the I-GP, Usman Baba, has started in some states where some houses have since been inaugurated.
Tinubu holds dual citizenship of Nigeria, Guinea, Atiku tells court
It added that the court erred and occasioned a miscarriage of justice when it refused to bind itself with the decision of the Court of Appeal in EFCC V Fayose (2018) LPELR 44131 CA, as well as the decision of the Supreme Court in Fawehinmi V IGP (2002)7 NWLR (PT767)606.
Mr Elemuwa said through the project, the agency has been able to raise awareness about the importance of accessing PHC services and educate communities on the benefits of preventive healthcare.
Custodian Investment appears in the pick for currently trading substantially below its actual value.
It also calls for the inclusion of mental health support as a service delivered at Primary Health Care centers across the country.
“As of today, we don’t have such “safe-keep” accommodate in Kogi where gender-based violence victims could be kept during the trying period,” Mr Muraina said.
The court concluded that Russia could not be held responsible for human rights violations during the five-day war.
Since the audio conversation was released, Mr Obi had remained silent on social media, leaving his aides to address the matter.
Violence was also used to target BVAS machines in order to disrupt the process and ensure the cancellation of results.”
2:28, Gal.5:6, Phil.
We are waiting for the deal day to be the Senate President of Nigeria.”
“Mazi Nnamdi Kanu and IPOB set aside the 30th of May every year as a special day to honour gallant men and women who paid the ultimate sacrifice for us to live as a people.
Among its other findings, the report said, “three most popular gender equality initiatives are coaching and mentoring programmes, flexible working arrangements and leadership training for women”.
After his tenure as governor of Anambra state in 2006, Obi promptly dumped the APGA, decamped to the then ruling PDP and became an appointee of the President Goodluck Jonathan administration.
It is your party and we have heard you.
This mission is open to engaging with all relevant bodies in this regard".
Mr Nami was also recently named winner of the BusinessDay Newspaper Excellence in Public Service Award 2022.
The governor said the Monday sit-at-home had become an excuse for workers to stop coming to work on Mondays, insisting that such would not continue under his watch.
African leaders discuss challenges, growth of continent at Mo Ibrahim Forum
A contender for the Speakership position of the 10th House of Representatives, Rep, Muktar Betara, on Tuesday, held a closed-door meeting with president-elect Bola Tinubu, the former’s campaign team has said.
He gave the US government 60 days before the sentencing date to provide the Probation Office and the courtroom deputy a list of victims and their full current contact information to obtain the court’s order of restitution.
He stated also that the committee settled for Mr Olaifa being the vice-chairman from the suspended chairman’s senatorial district.
She said the scheme would help to stem spiralling teenage pregnancies, early marriages and school dropout figures – the cankerworms destroying the society and creating gender imbalance.
According to the World Health Organization (WHO), at least 413 people have been killed and more than 3,500 have been injured since the fighting began.
“The National Hajj Commission has allocated Azman Air for the Jigawa state as against the usual Max Air aircraft.
The PDP governorship candidate, Umo Eno won the election, while the Young Progressives Party candidate, Bassey Albert came second.
The All Progressives Congress (APC) condemns, in the strongest terms, the attack on some of its leaders and members in Port Harcourt on Monday, April 3, 2023, by thugs and supporters of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).
According to Mr Victor, Mr Agbazue said he did not charge Mr Asadu to court.
“In this regard, Nigerian students from Sudanese universities who are interested in transferring to Egyptian universities are expected to send their full names, faculties required, academic level/year completed, transcripts of the academic years completed.
The lawyer recalled two previous rulings of the court, directing the electoral umpire to grant access to Labour Party for the inspection of electoral documents like the Bimodal Voters Accreditation System (BVAS) machines that were deployed for the conduct of the presidential poll.
Mr Wali served as the NBA’s 26th president between 2012 and 2014.
Sad news, popular nollywood actor Murphy Afolabi, has passed away.
A WAEC official prevented our reporter from speaking to the candidates or accessing the premises.
But that is the often difficult to anticipate way of elections in liberal democracies at varying levels of development.
Two hours after that, I received another report that was not good.
“A few metres away from the initial stoppage point, the Lexus Jeep veered off the road to a nearby garage, driving directly into the waiting hands of hoodlums who were also collaborators in the criminal process, thereby not only obstructing the officers from discharging their duties but as well aiding the escape of the SUV and its occupants.
He came third with a total of 6,101,533 votes.
According to him, “the building of a Benin Royal Museum is a Federal Government project and we have been on it for some time now.”
He advised parents not to allow their children to be used as political thugs, as anyone found wanting would be arrested and prosecuted.
The statement reads in part: “In essence, the rescheduled Mock-UTME is only for candidates, who indicated interest, at the point of registration, to sit the mock examination but who were not successful during the Thursday, 30th March, 2023, exercise on account of technical challenges.
“It is good to reflect on what used to happen here, in FCT, especially on security.
He said the caution came following a fatal crash that occurred at World Oil Opic on the Lagos-Ibadan expressway, in Lagos State, on April 23 at 10:45 a.m.
The JAMB administrator at the centre, identified simply as Mr Simon, refused to speak to journalists, saying he has no permission to speak.
Placing of crash barriers on the bad portion.
The President also listed the rights to include; Freedom of Association and the Effective Recognition of the Right to Collective Bargaining, the Elimination of all forms of Forced or Compulsory Labour, and the Effective Abolition of Child Labour.
Today is significant in many respects.
In a statement he personally signed on Saturday, Mr Tinubu said for Christians the celebration is in commemoration of Jesus Christ’s life of service and supreme sacrifice for the salvation of mankind .
“An order of mandamus compelling the respondent (police) to investigate the fillings made by Bola Ahmed Tinubu in respect of his Guinean citizenship contained in INEC Form EC9 sworn to by him on June 14, 2022, and where he is found culpable of the offence of perjury, refer him to the Attorney General of the Federation for prosecution”.
“You can’t buy a newspaper.
“We have been managing their matter and have given them everything they want, including the residency training programme funds; we are paying them, even when in training, we pay them a full salary, pay them all the allowances, and you decided that we have not done enough,” he said.
The court held that Mr Kanu’s extraordinary rendition from Kenya in June 2021 to Nigeria without following the extradition rules was a flagrant violation of Nigeria’s extradition treaty and a breach of the IPOB leader’s fundamental human rights.
“The higher increase in Nyanya can be attributed to the influx of metropolitan consumers seeking lower prices, ultimately driving up the cost of food in these markets,” it said.
He said that it had never happened in Nigeria before—for a sitting president to lose election in his own state.
He described the late member-elect as “a brother and friend,”
“He was questioned for a long time and it was very strange for a man who lived for over a decade in that country,” the statement said.
Omoyemi Lateef Akangbe – CHAIRMAN
He said the commission was able to mobilise Nigerians for the Census with every information required for a successful census.
According to the report, a critical issue that the incoming administration has to grapple with is how to revamp the economy quickly.
Aminu Waziri Tambuwal emerged as the speaker, and that rancorous relationship culminate in his defeat in the 2015 general election.
The Amotekun commandant disclosed that the suspect admitted keeping the children in confinement for months, but denied starving them.
By Saturday evening, however, no citizens of Western countries had been evacuated.
In a recent video, a lady identified as Omolara James narrated how she was “sexually harassed” and assaulted by an auto spare parts dealer popularly called Bebex in Ladipo, Mushin area of the state.
The report said tentative signs in early 2023 that the world economy could achieve a soft landing with inflation coming down amid steady growth have receded due to stubbornly high inflation and recent financial sector turmoil.
"When we do the zoning meeting, we don’t just go alone as a party, zoning is to take along the person who has the mandate of this country, the President-elect, Sen. Bola Tinibu."
“The Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide led by Iwuanyanwu regrets the embarrassments that are often caused to the general public by the maladjusted attention seekers that deploy the name of Ohanaeze Ndigbo in most detestable and deplorable proportions,” it said.
Consequently, the appellate court ordered the government to release the IPOB leader.
The senator-elect has been invited by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) for questioning over corruption investigation.
It said the appellate court failed to provide justice for the state whose laws and “normative values (were) broken and also provided no justice to the victims of” Mr Kanu’s “criminal act”.
“It is instructive that Peter Obi and Rabiu Kwankwaso broke away from the PDP to contest the election on the platforms of the LP and NNPP respectively.
Opposition party members of the National Assembly are being courted with the likelihood of the 2015 situation presenting itself if care is not taken,” the memo reads in part.
Mr Buhari was part of other distinguished Nigerians that extolled the qualities of Mr Osinbajo at the public presentation of a book in the vice president’s honour.
Mongabay said it created the Y. Eva Tan Conservation Reporting Fellowship to build the capacity of young and aspiring environmental journalists to cover biodiversity hotspots around the world.
“Chinese mining contractors, who local communities have accused of abuses and paying pitiful wages, often smuggle minerals out of the country illegally and are sometimes arrested,” the report said.
They feature various sports and are full of inspiring stories.
There is nothing we do under shady waters, it’s an open process.
He said the arrested suspects had been on the wanted list of the police in the state “due to their nefarious activities,” and that some members of the syndicate escaped with various degrees of gunshot injuries.
The senator-elect is coming to the Senate for the first time after about 29 years since he left the National Assembly.
He also said the number of cancelled votes was higher than the margin with which Mr Abiodun beat him.
“This approach is to significantly reduce livestock and livestock products imports and at the same time stimulate exports to earn the much-needed foreign exchange.
According to her, the command has intensified surveillance patrols in the areas to forestall the escalation of the clash.
Mr Doguwa and others were recently arrested and charged to court by the police in Kano for alleged criminal conspiracy and culpable homicide.
And as stated by Mr Felix, the candidate went ahead to pick a Muslim running mate to the chagrin of many within and outside his party.
Ahead of the presidential election, critics of Mr Obi have accused him of playing politics of ethnicity and religion, which he lost but has challenged in court.
The Nigerian Labour Congress and its affiliate organisations – NUPENG, Textile Union, PENGASSAN, among others collaborated with the pro-democracy leaders and groups to restore democratic governance in Nigeria in 1999 after almost two unbroken decades of military dictatorship.
Leaders and officials cannot blindly attend summits without a clear agenda.
“The forces had repelled them, but in the ensuing gun duel, the Colonial building used as Police Station was razed down but no casualty on the part of the Police or loss of Arms/ammunition”, she said.
Only four states had a voter turnout above 40 per cent, all of them in Northern Nigeria.
PREMIUM TIMES in a report had explained some of the factors that will determine the zoning of the offices by the ruling party.
NDLEA intercepts drug consignments in winter jackets, body lotion at Lagos airport
A man dressed in white attire and a traditional cap to match could be seen in a video standing barefooted, making incantations and pouring libation using liquid substances.
A little homework and they would know what is manifestly obvious to me and so many others,” she said.
We are ready to intervene,’’ he told Italian radio on Wednesday morning.
Having gained enough time to strengthen its appeal, the government has now filed nine additional grounds to the four it filed in the wake of the Court of Appeal’s 13 October 2022 decision discharging Mr Kanu.
Our party again salutes Nigerian workers and wishes them a happy Workers’ Day celebration,” he said.
According to Mr Rahman, Mr Blinken assured Nigeria of a good and mutually-beneficial relationship with the US, promising to play his part in bringing a sustained and cordial relationship between the two nations to fruition, “saying a democratic and peaceful Nigeria is important to the United States as it is to Africa.”
IPOB leadership advise all to maintain peace and order during the event.
“These killings are one among many in the constituency, where over 200 persons have been killed in the last four months before this one.
Deputy Speaker Idris Wase (APC, Plateau), Sada Soli (APC, Katsina), Muktar Betara (APC, Borno), Ahmed Jaji (APC, Zamfara and Alhassan Doguwa (APC, Kano) announced their coalition on Monday and vowed to defeat the consensus candidate.
A former Senate President, Ken Nnamani, has described reports concerning his health as “fakes news”, stressing that he is not down with a stroke.
Don’t take my voice away.
“Although article 19(3) recognizes ‘national security’ as a legitimate aim, the Human Rights Committee has stressed ‘the need to ensure that the invocation of national security is not used unjustifiably or arbitrarily to restrict freedom of expression and media freedom.”
Mr Buhari, represented by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, applauded Mr Osinbajo’s dedication to service especially in catering for the interest of the masses.
“I enjoin prospective applicants or members of the public in Taraba to be wary of such fake accounts and disregard it,” she said.
He insisted that Mr Tinubu was constitutionally disabled from contesting for the office of president.
Bola Tinubu of the APC was declared winner after polling a total of 8,794,726 votes to defeat his closest challenger, Atiku Abubakar of the PDP who scored a total of 6,984,520 votes.
The minister slammed the opposition for continuously seeking to mislead the world by clutching at the weak straw that results were not immediately uploaded onto the IReV Portal.
He noted that NDDC could no longer shoulder the enormous responsibility of developing the Niger Delta region alone, hence the recourse to the PPP model to provide alternative funding sources for critical developmental projects and programmes to effectively drive sustainable development in the region.
But the reconciliation must be sincere and pragmatic,” the group added.
The earlier we start thinking nationalistic, having a global review of Nigeria as a country, the better for all of us.
The question is less about whether summits work and more about how to make them work for Africa.
In Kware/Wamakko Constituency the incumbent Abdullahi Kalambaina of APC won with 43,344 votes.
“Therefore, the cooperation and understanding of all and sundry is required to complement ongoing efforts aimed at ensuring the safe return of every Nigerian trapped in Sudan,” it appealed.
Mr Umahi, who made the assertion in Abakaliki, dedicated the victory of the All Progressives Congress in Ebonyi State and across the country to God.
As the reconstruction work on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway enters its final phase, the federal government has appealed for patience and understanding of motorists on account of the heavy traffic being experienced on the stretch from Toll Gate to Kara Bridge in Lagos.
Police spokesperson in Rivers State, Grace Iringe-Koko who confirmed the abduction on Monday, said Mrs Izonfuo was abducted on Sunday alongside her driver and maid at the Ogbakiri Junction on the East-West Road.
Some eligible voters, Aminu Rufa’i, Kabir Nasir and Maryam Bello, commended the process and expressed the hope of rounding off early, without experiencing what occurred during the previous election.
Florence Okpe, the public education officer, Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) in Ogun State, confirmed the incident to journalists in Abeokuta on Sunday.
On 26 September 2014, Mr Buba discharged Mr Ikuforiji and his aide from the charges, after upholding their no-case submission.
EFCC detains Buhari’s former minister
He felicitated Nigerians and the Christian community in particular, on the commemoration of the crucifixion, death and resurrection of Jesus Christ.
The appointment of Garba Umar as senior security adviser is meant to enable him complete his tenure as an executive member of the International Police Organisation (INTERPOL) in 2023.
Performing the third track from his ‘Timeless’ album, Davido sang alongside new act Morravey whom he featured on the track.
But the killings and destruction of property have continued unabated with intermittent fighting breaking out among the two groups.
The national secretary, in a letter, through his lawyer, Gboyega Oyewole, dated 15 March, said the statement by Mr Lukman is false because he was not given money by the party for the election.
“I am using this opportunity to appeal to people that God has blessed to please come to the aid of People Living with Disabilities, the government cannot do it alone, but as a government, we will continue to do our best to ensure we give them the best”, the governor said.
Since the fighting erupted two weeks ago between the Sudanese army and the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF), over 500 people have been killed and almost 4,100 injured.
Sudan: First batch of 1,600 Nigerian evacuees to arrive Nigeria Friday – NEMA
Mr Ebri’s dismissal came less than 24 hours after the police demoted another officer filmed slapping a motorist in the neighbouring Rivers State.
The Secretary of the Committee, Victor Afam, a Labour Party member-elect from Anambra State, said the committee could not get a candidate as none of the minority caucus members showed interest.
PREMIUM TIMES reported that Mr Ararume, who was appointed to the position in September 2021, was removed shortly before the inauguration of the board of the company in January 2022.
He condemned the report of money inducement against some of the aspirants for leadership positions in the forthcoming Assembly, especially those under investigations by EFCC and those standing trials for corrupt practices in their previous political offices.
He added that the meeting agreed that all intending pilgrims must complete payment of their Hajj fare by April 21.
I am the resurrection and the life.
“In proving their case, the Prosecution through its counsel, Sabo Shehu, called 4 witnesses and tendered extra judicial statement and a medical report while the Defendants testified in their defence and called 2 other witnesses.
Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State has assured workers of his administration’s unwavering commitment to welfare in spite of challenges faced.
Journalism is not crime; it is a constitutionally-backed enterprise to uphold the accountability and responsibility of the powerholders to the people.
Condemning the speculation that his wife died of complications from tummy tuck surgery, Mr Nnamani said she died at the Enugu National Orthopedic Hospital Enugu following a brief illness.
My ADC, who I mentioned everyday is the closest person to me, is from Kano.
“It is definitely a question that is going to be raised and it is something that our party must look at.
Has it been living within us?
The governors of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike and Oyo State, Seyi Makinde on Friday paid a visit to the President-elect Bola Tinubu, at the Defence House, Abuja.
“Be rest assured that the incoming administration of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu will be gender-friendly.
And finally, looking ahead: A Prayer for Nigeria:
Are we going to get an open National Assembly from an Onuoha leadership?
“We hereby dissociate ourselves from the endorsement of Sen. Godswill Akpabio for the Senate Presidency by a coalition of Northern groups.
Were we convinced that we had crossed the threshold of ethnic and religious bigotry?
Mr Fashola said while awaiting reliable census data, his approach has been concentrating on housing supply and construction activities in the urban centres of states, even as he is mindful of empty houses in the same urban centres.
Nigeria’s lawyer, Mark Howard, told the court that this line of reasoning“demonstrates the scorn that P&ID has for Nigeria, its rule of law, its people, and indeed its efforts to stamp out corruption.” Nigeria, which accuses P&ID of “bribery on an industrial scale,” has called on the High Court to invalidate the arbitration award.
A support group within the North-west chapter of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has asked the President-elect, Bola Tinubu, to allow the zone to produce the next senate president.
He said its members were still awaiting the federal government’s call for negotiations.
In the response filed by his lead counsel, Chris Uche, SAN, Atiku said that his identity, comprising age, state of origin and educational qualifications had never been in dispute.
According to Mr Ojukwu, this is apt, as it seeks to highlight the influence of the freedom of expression on other human rights.
His son said the former governor “passed on peacefully” on Tuesday morning at the National Hospital Abuja after a brief illness.
As Nigerians join the world to celebrate Easter on Sunday, prominent persons and political leaders have continued to felicitate Christians in the country, preaching peace, unity and perseverance.
“In the National Assembly, Senator Akpabio is the most ranking senator from the South-south under the platform of the APC while Senator Barau Jibrin is the most ranking senator from the North-west.
A black Lexus SUV and several security camouflages comprising police and military uniforms were the items recovered from the suspects, the police said.
“The PEBEC Secretariat supports about 15 priority public-facing agencies and currently tracks over 53 MDAs.
“Vaccines underpin our global health security by preventing and controlling over 30 infectious diseases, reducing unnecessary hospitalisations and controlling infectious disease outbreaks.
These fire trucks must be diamond-plated within and without, Mr Minister @hadisirika !
According to the statistics of the Global Hunger Index in 2013, the country’s indicator placed it with a value of 27.0 which favourably makes Sudan a country with an ‘Alarming Hunger Situation’ and thus rated as the fifth hungriest nation in the world.
Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State was represented by his Special Adviser on Economy, Finance and Investments, Abdulkareem Siyaka.
PREMIUM TIMES reported how youths in Delta State protested with the victim’s corpse through major roads in Asaba.
Rt Hon Betara is my brother.
The court ordered journalists and lawyers not connected to Abba Kyari’s illicit drugs case out of the courtroom based on the NDLEA lawyer’s request.
He (Mr Wike) took a principled stand that the Presidency must return to the South and he has the courage to stand by his conviction not minding whose ox is gored.
By 2019, it returned to the South-west again with the current speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila,” he said.
Mr RK is a Nigerian with a UK passport, frequently shuttling the UK and Nigeria.
Samuel Ogbuku, managing director of the Commission, while appearing before the House Committee on NDDC on Thursday, said the 2021, 2022 and 2023 budgets have been consolidated into what he called “Budget of Rewind to Rebirth.”
Mr Otedola, who holds the most shares in FBN Holdings, the parent company of Nigeria’s oldest lender FirstBank, is now the biggest shareholder in Transcorp after UBA Nominees.
The annual competition anchored by the Rice 360 Institute for Global Health Technologies features student teams from universities across the world who present low-cost technologies designed to address global health challenges in resource-limited settings.
That is the authority to flag down and/or park any vehicle.”
— Wumi Toriola (@Wumi_Toriola) May 14, 2023
The police spokesperson said the suspects were caught while they were vandalising a truck suspected to have been stolen in the area.
He rose through the ranks to become the Bishop of Tinubu, Lagos State, in 1979.
Mr Tinubu, who was declared the winner of the presidential election on the platform of the APC, is fighting to retain his victory amid opposition parties’ frantic call for an order to overturn his mandate.
The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) had arraigned Eze Harrison Arinze on 24 March on five counts.
The fourth count stated that the defendants allegedly failed to apply to the comptroller general of Immigration for his permission before employing him both as the CEO and the chief finance officer of the company contrary to Section 38(1) of the Immigration Act 2015 and punishable under Section 38(5) of the Immigration Act 2015.
Idris Mohammed – ALTERNATE CHAIRMAN
The former president expressed confidence in the ability of Tinubu to do well as Nigeria’s leader.
There are no signs that the warring parties in Sudan are ready to seriously negotiate an end to fighting, UN envoy to Sudan Volker Perthes told a UN Security Council meeting in New York City on Tuesday.
“The challenge before us is working in unison with the party leadership and the National Assembly over the election of their principal officers.
Nigerian federal lawmaker-elect denies hitting hawker, assaulting woman
While the AA claimed that its candidate, Solomon-David Okanigbuan, was excluded from the presidential poll, based on which the election should be voided, the APM is contending that Mr Tinubu was not qualified to contest the election on the grounds of the alleged double nomination of his vice-presidential candidate.
Mr Tinubu, according to INEC declaration, defeated 17 other candidates after polling 8,794,726 votes.
A judge, B.F. Zubairu of the Kaduna High Court, on 2 May, granted the FME an interim injunction restraining the state from “entering, developing, or committing further acts of trespass” on the land belonging to the unity school.
The corporation eventually enforced the properties on 6 April as ordered by the Federal High Court.
He said he was aware of the allegation of rape because it had been made in Nigeria and had found out about it some months earlier when he visited the police station for unrelated reasons.
Malami repeated that claim in 2022, according to local media reports.
Dr Peterside, a celebrated public sector turnaround expert, technocrat and columnist,
In the past few years, cases of media and journalists harassment have been rampant.
Abubakar Idris Abdullahi (Jega United)
The Anambra governor has made unsuccessful attempts to stop the civil action initiated by the secessionist group in the state.
“The PDP notes the pronouncement by INEC Headquarters that the action of Mallam Yunusa Ari is “null, void and of no effect”.
The Ifo I election of 18 March was declared inconclusive following over-voting in a polling unit
Before the 2023 presidential election, there had been calls from South-east leaders that the region should be allowed to produce a Nigerian president for the first time in 2023.
The Presiding Officer of the polling unit, Peter Anatu, said accreditation and voting started at the booth at 8:00 a.m.
The development, which JAMB noted was observed across about 100 computer-based test centres, led to rescheduling of the examination for the affected candidates.
The body is expected to strengthen public confidence in the media by promptly resolving issues bordering on ethical breaches in media content.
The Summer Games are held every four years in one of the most desirable locations in the world.
A deck on a pile is a bridge that does not have piers.
But we had to do it because you know Nigerian lives matter to us.”
Mr Dangote also called for joint actions by all concerned partners globally if the collective goal of disease elimination by 2030 is to be achieved.
Atiku and his party are challenging Mr Tinubu’s victory at the Presidential Election Petition Court in Abuja.
When a symbol does emerge however, we are still obliged to examine every aspect of what is fortuitously on offer, and continue to guard our freedoms every inch of the way.
Mastomys rat, commonly known as “multimammate rat” is the natural reservoir or host of the virus.
His victory comes weeks after he was charged with murder by the police.
Speaking on electoral violence, Mr Keyamo said there has been a downward trend in the number of fatalities recorded during elections in Nigeria.
Mr Yahaya noted that Nigeria was faced with numerous security challenges occasioned by the activities of Boko Haram/ISWAP terrorists, bandits, kidnappers, separatist agitators, religious extremists and other criminal elements.
Mr Gbajabiamila said the House will review the legal framework establishing the agencies to prevent future occurrences.
Nurudeen Asunogie 08033533012 hamdallah1999@yahoo.com
The ANC, Mr Ramaphosa and Mr Lamola all quoted Amnesty International’s 2022/2023 human rights report that blasted the international community – including the ICC – for ‘shameless double standards.’
But, the plaintiffs in the fresh suits filed by their lawyer, Adekunle Otitoju, are asking the court to invoke Section 177 of the constitution, Sections 29 and 84 of the Electoral Act and Article 20 of the APC’s constitution, to declare the election illegal.
Atiku further argued that the litigation presents a unique constitutional dimension for the court to determine.
“In areas where there were some challenges, they did not result from institutional inadequacies, but through manipulation by one or two persons.
“Our target is to vaccinate every eligible person, 18 years and above, in Nigeria.
Mr Mohammed, who was represented by the ministry’s Permanent Secretary, Lydia Jafiya, said the media team has been critically selected based on national and sub-national coverage, relevance, integrity, capability, and performance.
She noted that FRSC was committed to guaranteeing Taraba people a safe motoring environment during and after Sallah periods.
According to him, divisive rhetorics and narratives that stoke religious tension and schism should be shunned.
She became queen after the death of her father, King George VI, on 6th February 1952.
Currently 0.2 per cent, the year-to-date yield on stocks is among the lowest so far since the start of the year, having peaked at 8.9 per cent in the week to 10 March before diminishing returns began to set in.
“This significant reserve will serve as a low-carbon energy alternative that will support growth in the power and industrial sectors, address energy poverty, reduce carbon footprint and create more employment opportunities,” he said.
YPP faults calls for Interim National Government
They claimed that the first six defendants were still political appointees/public servants at the time they contested the governorship primary election of 11 April.
The new development was confirmed to PREMIUM TIMES on Thursday by the Commission’s spokeswoman, Fatima Bappare.
He (Keyamo) gave us 72 hours ultimatum within which to investigate and prosecute the 1st defendant.
Their people were abducted so they attacked some Fulanis in the communities,” the local government chairman said.
I have come to let you know you are not inferior to anybody and to assure you that your government, the government of Ekiti State, will stand by you; we will partner with you in a way and manner that it will give a good meaning to your lives.
“Inmates with mental health defects and inmates with a pending fine not exceeding N50,000 and with no pending cases were part of those granted amnesty, “he said.
Let me reiterate that we are doing so through all lawful and peaceful options in line with our legal system and constitution, and I continue to implore all Nigerians to remain peaceful and law abiding.
“Important achievements have been realised towards the aspirations of the leaders who founded WHO.
Another civil servant at the culture and tourism ministry said for the first time in his civil service career he witnessed both the Ramadan fasting and Eid El Fitr celebrations without salaries.
“Hence, the birth of the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work in 1998, and amended in 2022, as an expression by the tripartite body of the ILO-government-employers’ and workers’ organisations.
“The flip side of not paying (full cost of the form) is that they are also using that to blackmail the PWDs.
I assure all of you it is only one person that God would choose to be speaker.
The APC deputy chairman (Northwest), Salihu Lukman, has urged the ruling party to consider the South-south for the position.
Mr Akpabio won the recent senatorial election in the Akwa Ibom North-west District, and is campaigning for the position of the Senate President.
On 17 April, gunmen attacked Mr Wali and some of his aides along the East–West Road, in Obio/Akpor Local Government Area of Rivers State.
Speaking to State House correspondents after the closed door meeting with the president, Mr Alia frowned at the condition of the Benue State Civil Service.
The witness, Ogunjobi Olalekan, an officer of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, told the court that Arinze’s victims were deceived into withdrawing their funds and deposited them into Arinze’s bitcoin accounts, thinking that they were transacting legitimate businesses.
Reading a prepared speech, Mr Morka said the zoning formula was arrived at following a meeting between the leadership of the party and Mr Tinubu.
In a statement he personally signed, Mr Abure said the invaders who were armed pulled down the fences, burglaries, doors and windows of the building to gain access to their secretariat located in the Utako district of the federal capital.
Mr Adejobi said officers and men living in the affected barracks listed were requested to vacate their quarters within the next 30 days, starting from Monday 1 May, to pave the way for seamless demolition and redevelopment of the buildings.
The latter two teams meet in Manchester Wednesday to decide which of them will qualify for the final.
I have shown you examples, several examples this evening of things that were said about me that are false, from dual citizens, from detention, from treason….so whatever they make it.
Both the NEMA and the Refugees Commission provided transportation and hotel accommodation for those of them whose families were not in Abuja, till they reunite with their respective families.
Mr Arase said the new posting was a call for greater commitment, innovation and loyalty to the Nigerian nation.
If we can recall four weeks ago, I was in their office where I declared my intention to contest for senate presidency.
Yesterday was the first public engagement I had but silently I have visited 24 governors across the country,” he said.
The group, in an email to PREMIUM TIMES, accused the oil company of profiteering from the African continent, exploiting its labour force and neglecting host communities.
A police source at the command told PREMIUM TIMES that Femi Falana, a senior lawyer, accompanied the singer.
Below is the composition of the committee members and how they can be reached.
“This was granted and the correction did not in any way affect the substance of the suit and the orders made by the Supreme Court.”
The new president-general said he had done “his best to serve Igbos both in time of war and time peace” and that, as a young boy, he learnt determination to serve Igbos from his father.
The federal government under President Muhammadu Buhari has made significant efforts in improving the business environment in Nigeria through the implementation of ease-of-doing business reforms, but more needs to be done in the coming years to deliver shared prosperity for all.
“ Later in the day, thunderstorms are expected over Imo, Abia, Edo, Ebonyi, Enugu, Cross River, Akwa Ibom, Delta, Rivers and Bayelsa.
In its reaction to Mr Buhari’s statement, Labour Party said contrary to the president’s claim, it won the election but was rigged out.
They would also convene an Ordinary Session of the IGAD Assembly of Heads of State and Government in the shortest time possible either in-person or virtually to deliberate on IGAD institutional matters and other issues of concern in the region.
He noted that he will vie for the position subject to the zoning of the position to the South-south geopolitical zone.
Director of Information to the First Lady of Nigeria
Mr Ekwo asked Ms Aransiola to file the application within seven days.
For the legal profession to achieve transformative change in the world, Mr Maikyau, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria, said “issues relating to gender equality and empowerment must be prioritised and addressed head-on”.
According to the commission, the action is academic hypothetical and of no utilitarian value to the plaintiff.
The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, on Thursday met with the nine aspirants jostling to replace him as speaker in the 10 Assembly.
A review of airlines’ blocked funds in Nigeria in the last six months shows an average month-on-month increase of $49.3 million.
Policies that will promote inclusivity and diversity and diversification from this mono-economy and also recalibration of the economy.
The Court of Appeal panel led by Jummai Sankey said the lower court “lacks the jurisdiction to entertain the suit.”
“I am happy to bequeath to you and, indeed, the members of this forum, a forum that is strong, cohesive and vocal in defence of democracy and good governance in the country.
Mr Abbas, who represents Zaria Federal Constituency in Kaduna State, stated this on Sunday during an interview on “‘Politics Today” a programme on Channels TV.
Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) polled 6,984,520 votes and Peter Obi of the Labour Party got 6,101,533 votes.
Video showed Mr Ahmed and his brother, Ashraf, both in handcuffs, speaking to journalists on the way to a medical check-up at a hospital seconds before they were both shot.
He noted that “the project was particularly significant and praiseworthy at a time like this when Federal Universities required all the support they could get from all quarters.”
“Today, April 15, 2023.
According to him, the complaint was lodged on a case of defilement, rape and incest in which the suspect is the biological father of the victim.
Mr Ghebreyesus said after years of war, the organisation realised that it was better to work with one other than fight with one another.
The APC has zoned the positions of speaker and deputy senate president to the North-west, while the senate president and deputy speaker have been zoned to South-south and South-east respectively.
The ruling party in the state, APC, on Friday nominated Ahmed Usman-Ododo, as its candidate for the 11 November governorship election.
In his remarks, the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, therefore, urged the British government to temper justice on the former Deputy senate president, saying the sentencing, if required “should not be too harsh.”
According to him, this is a special session we have with the TSN leadership.
Mr Echeng said the synergy among various security agencies, including the police, military and vigilante operatives, has helped “immensely” in the fight against hoodlums in the state.
“Council also approved contract for the construction of 3.2 kilometre road to Kwali Bridge in Kwalli Area Council of the FCT for about N1.6 billion.
Nigeria’s economy to grow 3.2% in 2023 — IMF
The election was earlier declared inconclusive because of the cancellation of the exercise in 38 polling units in Gusau and Tsafe Local Government Areas.
Mr Ologunagba also accused the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) of being corrupt.
His entrepreneurial ability soon became legendary, just as his lifestyle of order, balance, discipline and self-restraint.
Muhammad, her second husband, was killed in Ukuba terrorist enclaves in Sambisa forest during clashes between Boko Haram/ISWAP,” he said.
He let me know that there were three categories of people he would not rent property in his care to - Igbos, Ijebus and lawyers."
When is Ramadan 2023?
The convict, referred to as RK in the court’s judgement seen by PREMIUM TIMES, was sentenced in November 2022 to “a custodial term of 15 years imprisonment and an extended licence period of five years.”
Court reschedules trial of Abuja pastor arrested for wielding gun during church service
Once again, I rejoice with you on your coronation and pray that God Almighty grant you strength and wisdom and make your reign successful for the benefit of not only the people of the Great Britain but for the entire world.
First, politics in this dispensation in Nigeria since 1999 has not always alternated between the APC and PDP.
After PREMIUM TIMES report, Makinde explains delay in selection of new Alaafin
Lagos government probes collapsed building in Banana Island
It is a covenant born of conviction and one I am prepared to keep.
Mr Wamakko is slugging it out with the current deputy governor, Manir Dan Iya (PDP) for the Sokoto central senate seat while Governor Aminu Tambuwal (PDP) is hoping to unseat incumbent Ibrahim Danbaba (APC) in the Sokoto south district, just as a former commissioner, Shuaibu Gwanda – Gobir (PDP) is in a tight battle with Ibrahim Lamido (APC) for the Sokoto east senatorial seat.
”For this year, six universities, six polytechnics and six Colleges of Education (COE) will benefit from the special high-impact project.
“The Commissioner of Police has directed our tactical teams to be on standby, we are watching them seriously.
What the nations needs to know right now is if you are planning to send assassins after such negative analysts.!
The court on Tuesday adjourned hearing on the suit until 26 April.
Meanwhile, NAN reports that the next of kin of 644 deceased army officials, next of kin of 70 deceased Nigerian Navy officials and next of kin of 90 deceased officials of the Nigerian Air Force was presented with drafts.
“The eight female students of Government Secondary School, Awon – who were kidnapped by terrorists on Monday 3rd April 2023 in the Awon general area of Kachia LGA have escaped from the terrorists’ den.
The endorsement was done after a recommendation by Elders of Imo State because nobody was coming to ask or query his emergence.
A Domestic Violence and Sexual Offences Court in Ikeja, Lagos State, South-west Nigeria, in May, sentenced a dismissed police officer, Mohammed Alidu, to life imprisonment for raping a nine-year-old schoolgirl in a police barracks.
He was appointed a judge of the Eastern Nigeria High Court, and in 1964, he was elevated to the position of Justice of the Supreme Court.
Such beginnings – and instances are numerous – have culminated in the open intimidation of the Court of Last Resort, even before proceedings have begun.
The luggage tags on the bags included Mr Fagbewesa’s name and the flight number, the judge said.
Israel ready to support Nigeria develop technologies in fighting climate change – Envoy
“No civil or criminal proceedings shall be instituted or continued against a person to whom this section applies during his period of office.”
Mr Buhari applauded Mr Osinbajo’s dedication to service especially in catering for the interest of the masses.
The president commended the Inspector General of Police, Usman Baba, for the “correctness” of his decision to elevate the erstwhile deputy commissioner of police to the full rank of a commissioner, saying, “I am very pleased with his record.”
It took him 10 minutes to fix it and cost me N10,000.
He had no explanation for 1.5 million naira — about $12,500 at the time — paid in 2002 to the wife of an unnamed finance minister, marked in a separate spreadsheet.
Tinubu speaks on supplementary elections, demands probe of REC’s action in Adamawa
“A typical example is that of Rivers State, where the (INEC) Resident Electoral Commissioner boldly told us they do not have any form EC8 to give us,” Mr Uzoukwu said.
“Comparing the cost of making a pot of Jollof rice in September 2022 to March 2023, there was a significant increase of 13.3 per cent in the region.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Mr Ekpenyong, an Abuja-based lawyer, had in a suit marked: FHC/ABJ/CS/1076/2020, sued the National Assembly, Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) and the Attorney-General for the Federation (AGF) as 1st to 3rd defendants respectively.
It argued that the petition was incompetent since Mr Obi’s name could not have been in LP’s register made available to INEC at the time he joined the party.
Senator-elect, Abdulaziz Yari, says the contest for the position of the president of the 10th Senate will be based on constitutional provisions and not instructions by anyone.
They will continue to vote one way or the other depending on their preferences,” he stated.
Mr Ngige denied the claim by NARD that the federal government did not pay minimum wage consequential adjustment arrears to its members.
[PHOTO CREDIT: Ameh Ejekwonyilo]10:48am: Court says Mr Lalong cannot represent Mr Tinubu, but APC.
“We should now be building support and enabling environment for the incoming administration so that they could build – up on the positive record of President Buhari in all the major priorities his administration focused on.
He said that the aim of the training was to equip the contingent with the requisite skills to function effectively in the Gambia.
Mr Saidu was reacting to the demand by the South-east Senate Caucus that the APC zone the position to the region for fairness and justice.
“Luck, however, ran against him when he was apprehended at his Ijade-Iloti hideout on 28 April,” he said.
Nigerian university bans staff, students from fixing artificial nails, eyelashes
“Turnout in elections abroad was 51 per cent, which is relatively good although lower than in Turkey,” she added.
According to him, the unnamed candidate accused the INEC officials deployed for election duties of visiting the government house and meeting with one of the candidates in the election who gave them a list of “collation and returning officers” deployed for the election.
He noted that this would ensure that they feel safe walking and cycling, adding that this would further promote good health, sustainable cities and an equitable society.
Note that your actions today will shape tomorrow.
The security feature gives businesses and people the ability to monitor and help safeguard their most vulnerable information and networks, an official said
The hoodlums shot and killed one of Mr Wali’s aides while two police officers in the convoy sustained serious injuries.
The parties are the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Labour Party (LP), New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP), All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), Social Democratic Party (SDP), African Democratic Congress (ADC) and the Young Progressive Party (YPP).
“The government needs to review the security architecture in the oil-producing areas and give clear instructions about ending oil theft,” it said.
The federal government has declared Friday, 7 April and Monday, 10 April as public holidays for the 2023 Easter celebration.
Mr Tambuwal, who has lost in his bid to have his secretary government of the state, Sa’ad Umar, become his successor and failed at the national level now that Atiku lost to Mr Tinubu, will give all it takes to get the senate seat because it is now his only ticket to political relevance in the next four years.
Tiwa’s inclusion in the concert lineup has generated excitement among fans and music lovers worldwide.
“So, in that case, the panel members, who are also police officers, said since the girl has been charged to court, there is nothing they can do.
Wike funded my 2019 governorship campaign – Dino Melaye
So those are the two memoranda,” he said.
Six bills also scaled through first reading at the Senate.
He urged troops to continue to give their best in the service of the nation.
The policy, aimed at curbing counterfeiting and inflation, caused chaos across banks and ATM terminals, with protests breaking out in different parts of the country.
Again, after receiving dozens of petitions, Mr Buhari had to sack her for the same reasons of competence crisis, poor management of the commission and corruption allegations around her neck.
“We are starting the railway’s revolution; we are trying to put in place a lot of things in the railways; we don’t want people to come and damage all that the government has been trying to put in place in that sector.
Mr Shehu said the opposition’s victory in the general election would not only have been a career-ending moment for many APC leaders but would also have had negative consequences for the various programmes of the Buhari administration.
Meta Chief Executive Officer, Mark Zuckerberg, has announced that WhatsApp users will from Tuesday be able to use the same account on multiple phones simultaneously.
“This is of course regrettable, although one has to be realistic: so endemic is corruption in Nigeria that there cannot be many companies with a track record of doing business there in relation to which that would not turn out to be the case,” the company wrote.
The panel comprises five judges drawn from various divisions of the Court of Appeal.
The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) has advised travellers using the Lagos-Ibadan expressway to explore alternative ways due to a road traffic crash along the route.
The party also endorsed Tajudeen Abbas (North-west) and Ben Kalu (South-east) for speaker and deputy speaker respectively.
Meanwhile I am not your friend.
Cahill explained some payments as legitimate expenses, but acknowledged that there were no documents to back this up.
While the fundraising committee comprises six members, the two others have five members each.
“This becomes very germane to the principles of fairness and equity.
• Mpigi Barinda Rivers South East
“A total of 304 electoral offences were recorded during the governorship and State Houses of Assembly elections, with a total number of 578 arrests recorded and 48 firearms recovered.
According to him, just in the past five years, new vaccines for Ebola and malaria have been developed and licensed.
2023 Polls: You’ll be lucky to escape lawsuit, Tinubu’s team tells Chimamanda Adichie
He said the suspect had been maltreating his three children, aged 16, 17 and 18, since his marriage to their mother, Busola Otusegun, crashed.
PREMIUM TIMES could only review results from 1,116 polling units uploaded on the IReV as of 16 March, representing about 94.13 percent of the results from the council area.
“This upward trend persisted through March.
They’ve claimed that he ordered his soldiers to lock up civilians and set fire to buildings they were in for allegedly supporting rebels from the Liberians United for Reconciliation and democracy, who were fighting Taylor’s government at the time.
Mr Akpabio was accompanied by the senator representing Kano North, Barau Jibirin, and Governor of Ebonyi State, Dave Umahi .
Mr Adagunodo had earlier served as chairman of the PDP in Osun State before he was elected the party’s national Vice chairman in 2021.
Mr Ndirpaya said Nigeria’s animal feed sector remains underdeveloped, largely due to high production costs.
You came suddenly; the election was conducted and, as usual, rigged.
“Information received by the Command from Village Head of Wanzamai revealed that, about Nine (9) women and children left their homes to the bush to fetch for firewood.
The resurrection is a promise that despite the seeming hopelessness, God’s plans cannot be frustrated.
”The petition is further adjourned until 19 May (Friday),” he said.
The programme manager said the disease spreads through the air when a person with tuberculosis of the lungs or throat coughs, sneezes or talks.
President Buhari commended the late Mr Abdulkadir for his role in strengthening the country’s university education and the paternalistic role he played in preserving the historic role of his alma mater, Barewa College, Zaria saying that he leaves behind an indelible mark on the development trajectory of our nation.
“Regarding the arrangement for the airlift of pilgrims, we can only assemble exact numbers of intending pilgrims after we are acquainted with the plane capacity coming to evacuate them.
Some of the lawmakers in the speakership race include Deputy Speaker Idris Wase (APC, Plateau), Yusuf Gagdi (APC, Plateau), Muktar Betara (APC, Borno), Ben Kalu (APC, Abia), Sada Soli (APC, Katsina), Tunji Olawuyi (APC, Kwara) and Abubakar Makki (APC, Jigawa).
“However, by publishing the results on April 18th, the closed period ended 24 hours later, allowing insiders in Transcorp to purchase shares of the company,” he added.
According to the April 2023 Monthly Oil Market Report (MOMR) published by the oil cartel, Angola recorded 1.06 million barrels per day (bpd) of crude production in April, up from 972,000 bpd recorded in March.
“The truth must be told that we are going to support the leadership of your party at the national level,” Mr Wike said.
Mr Tinubu said in 2019, Atiku lost the presidential election to Mr Buhari; and now in 2023, he had, again, lost the presidential election to him.
Mr Yari stated this on Monday while speaking with journalists at an induction programme organised for senators and members-elect for the 10th National Assembly at the International Conference Centre, Abuja.
It further asked the court to determine whether the EFCC can “legitimately” probe the public funds of the government which have been lawfully appropriated by the State House of Assembly.
PREMIUM TIMES had earlier reported that the ruling party adopted Tajudeen Abbas, a lawmaker from Kaduna State as the consensus candidate for Speaker, and Ben Kalu, a lawmaker from Abia State, as deputy speaker.
Prosecutors questioned him over a prior statement to Finnish police that he had met Mr Massaquoi in 2001 either in Kolahun or Voinjama.
PSC seeks support from UNDP, German govt to improve policing in Nigeria
Actor Murphy Afolabi dies nine days after turning 49
Tinubu honoured the invitation and came with a team of economic experts and businessmen, who took time to discuss with Guinean government officials how the country could better harness its resources for economic prosperity and development.
Mr Aya, the local government chairman, called on security agents in the state to take charge of the situation.
Mr Belgore said that the Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, made the declaration on behalf of the federal government.
The decision to take steps to impose visa restrictions, he said, reflects the continued commitment of the United States to support Nigerian aspirations to strengthen democracy and the rule of law.
There is a lot of division along ethnic and religious inclinations.
“So, we will appreciate it if the Attorney General and Honourable Minister provide this response and also appear before the Committee next Thursday.
See what you’ve done to our elections… We’ve been conducting elections for years, and they’ve been rigged without incident.
According to her, the Act establishing the interventionist agency, empowers the chairperson of the board to sign MoUs on behalf the agency.
Mr Osifeso added that the suspicious action prompted the police to give a hot chase to the vehicle.
In a similar trend, the support Mr Obi, a south-eastern Christian received from Northern Christian community leaders goes a long way to explain his strong performance in North-central states like Nasarawa and Plateau.
“…the acknowledged copies of those letters and those chats and replies are still on my phone, showing the dates of those chats,” he said.
I wasn’t saying snatch it, kill it, take it, force it.
Shortly after her arrival, he married a woman she did not get on with.
“I hereby declare Wednesday, 3 May a public holiday to enable the people of Rivers State to receive our President-elect in rousing welcome.
Movie Title: A Simple Lie
The former senators said the upper chamber needs experienced people to steer its affairs.
In particular, Mr Obi and his party accused the INEC and the APC of manipulating election results in favour of Mr Tinubu.
“According to a report by the Centre for Democracy and Development (CDD), several polling units recorded violence and/or fighting across the country.”
So, you can imagine where these people are coming from at this particular point in time.
Mr Tinubu also noted that the country would make progress in many areas if Nigerians eschew divisive, parochial, ethnic and religious sentiments and rivalries.
Movie Review: A Simple Lie: Another cliche Nollywood rom-com almost marred by numerous sex plots
The Executive Secretary of the commission, Tony Ojukwu, said this in a statement to mark the 2023 World Press Freedom Day (WPFD) in Abuja.
The Anambra State Government, in the suit, asked the court to determine whether “the appropriation, disbursement and or administration of funds belonging to the state government is subject to investigation by the EFCC being an agency of the Federal government.”
Let us see this as a detour, a diversion.
I do not see any substance in the submissions of counsel to the Attorney General on this issue.
He added that at least MIDAS was powered by foreign countries helping NIS to ensure that the borders were tight and in control.
Contesting the court’s order releasing Mr Kanu, the government argued that the appellate court erred when it held that the Federal High Court lacked jurisdiction to try the IPOB leader because of his “extraordinary rendition” from Kenya.
Two locally made explosive devices, one AK-47 rifle, nine live 7.62 ammunition, four AK-47 magazines and charms were among the items recovered from the gunmen during the operation, according to the police.
“As human rights defenders, the NHRC is committed to join all well-meaning stakeholders to fight for a robust civic space in Nigeria.
The chairperson said the Enugu Capital Territory Development Authority and other government agencies should know that there was a court order obtained in 2022 against any demolition of the properties and implored them to “allow the courts to exhaust their jurisprudence before any other actions are undertaken on the matter.”
Mr Olatubosun said the appointment of the traditional ruler takes immediate effect.
“Our president-elect, I am following his footsteps as someone that is elected based on his potential, based on his antecedence, based on what he means to Nigerians.
He defeated 17 other candidates, including Atiku Abubakar of the PDP and Peter Obi of the Labour Party.
We cannot allow one leader to jeopardise out future,” Mr Oluwole said.
There are still millions of people that will still look at the issue of religion and as a good leader you still have to carry people along.
The question then is not whether summits work, but how to make them work for Africa.
Mr Ari made the declaration Sunday morning amidst chaos at the collation centre in Yola, the state capital, Daily Trust reports.
The LP presidential candidate has yet to speak on his ordeal in London.
Dominic Inyang, the Head Of Public Affairs Unit at CAC told this newspaper on Tuesday that, “The commission is not satisfied with the judgement, and has filed an appeal at the Court of Appeal.”
“They forget that as the Honorable Attorney General of Nigerian and Minister of Justice, you are to take consistent decisions that will be in line with underlying principles of law.
Former NBA president Okey Wali was abducted 14 days ago following an attack on his convoy by kidnappers.
Prosecutors have alleged it was in those towns and other areas, including Kamatahun and Kortuhun that Mr Massaquoi raped and killed civilians.
But no one is going to be surprised if that goes to the South-east or South-south.”
In a video clip circulating on WhatsApp, Mr Ekere talked about the unresolved issues of who lead the APC at the ward, local government, and the state levels in Akwa Ibom, and accused Mr Akpabio of instigating the crisis which has crippled the party in the state.
He held that the application would be taken together with the issue of jurisdiction on the next adjourned date and adjourned until April 26 for a hearing.
“Yes, he was suspended.
According to her, Pathfinder International implemented the project in collaboration with Planned Parenthood Federation of Nigeria (PPFN), Nigerian Interfaith Action Association (NIFAA), Vaccine Network for Disease Control (VNDC), and Sapphital Learning Limited.
But Bulus Atsen, the immediate past chairperson of NBA, Abuja branch, told this newspaper that the action could be argued to be robbery given that Mr Ohadoma resorted to self-help, which he said, is not permissible in law.
There were only “sporadic clashes.”
He said the network had the capability of providing voice, data and video as well as other value-added services for the armed forces locations in and outside Abuja.
Mr Edafe, a deputy superintendent of police disclosed this in a statement he posted on Facebook.
“So the 10th Assembly is going to work for the people and do the work of the people.
JAMB said the centralisation of the application process is, therefore, to guide against such fraudulent practices and to set a template for private CBT centres’ participation in subsequent years.
The figures show that the distribution companies generated a sum of N434.94 billion in total for both quarters.
Mr Okowa said despite the challenging times and troubles in many states of the nation, the state was relatively peaceful and has provided an enabling environment for businesses to thrive.
Mr Maihanchi was the elected to represent Jalingo, Yerro, and Zing Federal Constituency of Taraba state during the 25 February National Assembly election.
The candidates of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Akarachi Amadi; the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Osmond Ukanacho and the Labour Party (LP), Uche Ogbuagu, are the three major contenders for the Mbaitoli /Ikeduru Federal Constituency election.
“Our newspaper is interested in understanding the circumstances surrounding the arrest and detention of Mr Obi, including:
Presidential Election: You are ‘shameless sore losers’, Lai Mohammed replies opposition
He called on institutions to ensure all resources were utilised judiciously as mechanisms had been put in place to check performances.
But if there was no weapon used and no injury inflicted on the debtor, then it was not robbery,” Mr Ngwu said.
NAN reports that many innocent people had fallen victim to gun attacks by agents of land grabbers in Ikorodu and its environs in the past.
Mr Sabo told reporters in Kaduna that he made so much money because he was a delegate to the state assembly, National Assembly, governorship and presidential primaries of his party.
Mrs Adeh said one of the kidnap victims, Tama Jonathan, unfortunately, sustained injury during the rescue operation and died on the spot.
The tweet read: “So @officialBAT called Emeka Offor to beg Peter Obi to accept the rigged result.
“The data reveal a decline in prices between September and October, followed by a significant increase in November.
Mr Tinubu, the ruling APC candidate, polled a total of 8,794,726 votes to defeat Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) who scored a total of 6,984,520 votes and Mr Obi of the Labour Party (LP), who came third with a total of 6,101,533 votes.
The president-elect recalled that Atiku in 1993, lost the Social Democratic Party (SDP) primary election to the late M.K.O Abiola.
There were also the Deputy Governor of Ebonyi State, Kelechi Igwe and APC governorship candidate in Kano State, Nasiru Gawuna.
While trying to prove the credibility of the election, Mr Alake stated that the decisions of Mr Obi and Rabiu Kwankwaso to defect from the PDP to LP and New Nigeria Peoples Party respectively helped Mr Tinubu to win the election, a task that would have been almost impossible.
Many residents have lost family members and means of livelihood due to the activities of terrorists in the area.
Mr Adamu, while welcoming the lawmakers, expressed satisfaction with their visit and decision to come open with their grievance.
PREMIUM TIMES has assembled here a number of stocks with fundamentals and other potential, adopting key analytical approaches to save you the hassle of randomly picking equities for investment.
By yesterday, I saw the president-elect on his invitation and he told me that he is already committed and he said please don’t run and I accepted and I stepped down for my brother, Senator Akpabio,” he said.
9th National Assembly has delivered democracy dividends to Nigerians – Lawan
Sudan: Nigeria to commence ‘second phase’ of evacuation Saturday
Asked for a response to testimony delivered in the High Court trial, lawyers for P&ID said “it would not be appropriate for us to comment pending judgment in these proceedings.”
The party is, however, expected to zone the positions of leadership of the parliament; most likely to regions different from the South-west, where Mr Tinubu is from, and the North-east, where Mr Shettima is from.
The minister commended security agencies on the successes recorded in the fight against criminals across the country, urging Nigerians to be part of the nation’s security architecture by being vigilant.
May God bless him.
“We were there early enough and at about 8:30 a.m., polling units were opened.
I pray that in the new dispensation, we have a party leadership at the national level that would look at what the issues are at the various states and resolve them, and not just listen to one man who talks and confuses everybody with grammar,” Mr Ekere said.
Speaking on the matter, the Chairperson of federation of women lawyers (FIDA), Kogi, Lilian Okolo, and Idris Muraina, the chairman of the Kogi Network of NGO (KONGONET), also commended the NSCDC for their proactive-ness in handling the case.
Our drive to open part of the Oluwa forest reserve is strictly a deliberate policy geared towards putting the state on a solid economic footing and less dependence on federal monthly allocation.
Please protect those assets.
The handing over and inauguration ceremony of the facility also known as Safe Space, was organised by USAID-MCGL in collaboration with the state’s Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development.
The permanent secretary stated that in certain circumstances, preferences are given to developed countries on the basis of the specifications.
Mr Alabi disclosed that aspirants sometimes have to hire private jets in making these rounds.
The Federal Government has so far evacuated 2,371 Nigerians stranded in war-torn Sudan.
Eric Oluwole, who led the protest, said an ultimatum would soon be issued to Mr Adebanjo to step down.
“I must commend you for ensuring that in all our decisions, the unity of our country has played the most important role.
The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) in the state said it’s working “round the clock” to salvage the situation.
But the judge, Ms Olotu, granted the application by directing Mr Nnamdi to be arraigned on the fresh charge.
Zone senate presidency to North-west or lose support – APC chieftain warns party
Inibehe Effiong, a Lagos-based human rights lawyer, told PREMIUM TIMES that the country’s law insists that for a case of robbery to be established, two elements of the offence of robbery – use of force to obtain property and intention of permanent deprivation of the said property – must be proved.
“We have created four more federal institutions – David Umahi Federal University of Health Sciences, David Umahi Federal Teaching Hospital, Muhammadu Buhari International Airport and Isu College of Education.”
Those are not just promises; I will do everything within my ability to make sure my people enjoy everything that is due to them.
The seeds of incipient fascism in the political arena have evidently matured.
The commission also called for the suspension of the process.
Mr Okoye said that the INEC situation room would be activated and the commission chairman would be presiding.
Only the five aforementioned states recorded more than one million votes in the 25 February presidential elections.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Mr Mamu was arrested on reasonable suspicion of financing Boko Haram terrorism activities.
“Luckily for you, your source (Ile-Ife) which is within the Federal Republic of Nigeria is filled with lovely people and it’s a very safe environment,” Mr Ogunwusi said.
Idris Yakuku, a former member of the fourth Assembly (1999-2003), who spoke on behalf of the group, argued that the proposed arrangement on zoning gives the North-west more than they deserve.
According to Max Air, the affected aircraft had 143 passengers and an infant onboard.
Tinubu discusses Nigeria-US relations with Sec Blinken
Mr Osigwe, who appeared for the Australian national (2nd defendant), 5th, 4th and 6th defendants, argued that considering the facts and circumstances surrounding the case and taking the number of years the defendants had spent defending themselves into consideration, he prayed the court not only to discharge them but acquit them of the charges.
Speaking on its long history of war against preventable diseases, the company’s Medical Director for Sub-Saharan Africa, Kodjo Soroh, said: “At Pfizer, we have a long history in vaccine research and development, including a pivotal role in the eradication of polio and smallpox.
This is the very basis of the rigorous transformation effected by media and conflict resolution experts and scholars, as manifest in the trajectory of, at first, peace journalism and much later till date, conflict-sensitive journalism.
Mr. Chief Clerk, I am very much aware of the current travails and conviction of Ike Ekweremadu and his wife in the United Kingdom resulting from their being charged with conspiring to arrange the travel of a 21-year old from Nigeria to the UK in order to harvest organs for their daughter.
In his motion, Mr Nwawuba informed his colleagues that the federal government is planning to disburse $700 million from the funds to Nigerian shippers but that the lawmakers have no details of the total accruals into the fund.
The principle is applied where the margin of lead between the forerunner and the runner-up is lower than the number of PVCs collected.
EFCC faulted the court’s decision in the appeal it said it filed shortly after the judgement on Wednesday.
Nigerian university develops ‘climate smart’ goat farming
Mr Maikyau recalled that Mr Wali, who served as the 26th NBA president between 2012 and 2014, “has served this nation in varying capacities, contributing immensely to the growth of legal practice and in the promotion and entrenchment of the rule of law.”
The lawmaker was involved in a violent confrontation between members of the New Nigeria People Party (NNPP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC) that led to the killing of three people and the burning of a campaign office of the opposition party in Tudun Wada Local Government Area of Kano.
The upper chamber resumed on Tuesday after observing a few weeks of recess to participate in the 2023 general elections.
In the 45 seconds clip, five officers are seen assaulting the two people in an open space while a sixth officer pulled out a machete from a parked SUV believed to be a police operational vehicle.
While we commend the swift response of security agencies, especially the Police and the Nigerian Army in restoring peace and order in the wake of this brutal attack, again, we call on the Inspector General of Police to order an urgent and thorough investigation into this and previous incidents of violent attacks on leaders and members of our Party in Rivers State, and to bring the sponsors and perpetrators to justice.
The House, in a motion moved by Henry Nwawuba (APGA, Imo) on Tuesday during plenary, called for the suspension pending the outcome of House investigation.
AA, in the petition, sued the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), APC, Mr Tinubu and Hamza Al-Mustapha, its factional presidential candidate and former CSO to late General Sani Abacha.
He stated that the lawmakers are working to prevent “a bully” from emerging as the speaker of the 10th House.
“We will continue to take necessary steps to bring shared prosperity to Bayelsa and its people,” he said.
The health organisation said among the 139 countries that responded to the fourth round of WHO’s pulse survey, countries reported continued disruptions in almost one-quarter of services on average.
The governor, who was accompanied to the school by the Secretary to Ekiti State Government, Habibat Adubiaro, Head of Service, Bamidele Agbede, Mr Oyebode, and other top government officials, appealed to the well-to-do in the society to come to the aid of people living with disabilities.
Arakunrin Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, SAN, CON
“As soon as I assumed office, I was briefed by my officers about the crime situation in the state and we jointly mapped out a strategy on how best to deal with the criminal elements to ensure that the good people of the state sleep with their two eyes closed.
His altercation with the officer on the Third Mainland Bridge in Lagos was caught on video that immediately went viral, leading to a public outrage.
All five judges attended the Lagos campus of the Nigerian Law School.
PREMIUM TIMES had reported that the coalition, which comprises the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Labour Party (LP), New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP), All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), Social Democratic Party (SDP), African Democratic Congress (ADC) and the Young Progressive Party (YPP), set up a 13-man committee to shop for a candidate from the minority camp.
The government, through the office of the Attorney-General of the Federation, later appealed the court ruling and subsequently obtained an order staying execution of the court judgement at the Supreme Court.
Like that of the Alaafin, the stool of the Soun of Ogbomoso has also been vacant since Oba Jimoh Oyewumi died on 13th December 2021.
In a short ruling, the court dismissed the petition.
Presidential Election: Court adjourns Obi, LP’s petition
“CPJ’s research on press freedom in Nigeria, showing years of attacks on members of the press—including killings—strongly contradicts comments by Attorney General and Minister of Justice Abubakar Malami about the press freedom situation in the country,” said Angela Quintal, CPJ’s Africa program coordinator.
NLC President, Joe Ajaero, made the call during the 2023 Workers’ Day celebrations on Monday in Abuja.
The Labour Party is now Nigeria’s third-largest party.
This would enable the African Court to replace the ICC as a viable – and from Africa’s perspective, more objective – judge of genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes and transnational organised crime.
Meanwhile, Ms Dorayi further explained that the ACCESS project was aimed at addressing vaccine hesitancy, building trust, and ensuring equitable distribution of COVID-19 vaccines in Kano, Kaduna, and FCT.
A civil society organisation has asked the Federal High Court, Abuja, to order the investigation and prosecution of Bola Tinubu, the president-elect, over his alleged Guinean citizenship.
“There is nothing like warning strike.
Continuing, he explained that: “those that were identified were from thirteen different countries- the total inflow to his bitcoin wallet address based on the response was about 15.5btc valued around $382,000 (Three Hundred and Eighty Two United States Dollars and the defendant has withdrawn about 5btc before it was blocked.”
Similar to Ghana, Mrs Adeyeye said the vaccine is indicated for the prevention of malaria in children from 5 months to 36 months of age.
The laptop owner, Joe Abah, in a tweet, narrated how he accidentally spilt some liquid on his new MacBook Pro.
By next year, he said the board would’ve discovered “all their antics” and come up with a measure to address it and probably allow private registration centres.
They alleged that the directors and majority shareholders of Soleh Boneh “conspired to acquire the shares and assets of the 5th respondent (Solel Boneh) for their benefit by whatever means necessary”.
Mr Fintiri scored 430,788 votes to defeat his closest opponent, Aishatu Binani of the All Progressives Congress (APC), who secured 398,788 votes at the election.
Austin Agada, the state APC chairman, said this at a stakeholders’ meeting on Wednesday in Makurdi, the state capital.
The primary election conducted on Wednesday had the party delegates from the eight local government areas of the state casting their votes to affirm the candidature of the governor.
Again, NBA president appeals for Okey Wali’s release from kidnappers’ den
Erdogan in survival battle as run-off election likely in Turkey
George Moghalu, managing director, National Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA), said this while he fielded questions from State House correspondents after a private meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday at the Presidential Villa, Abuja.
He said the commission restates its commitment to discharge its responsibilities to the Nigerian people in accordance with the provisions of the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, the NCA 2003 and other extant laws of the federation and global best practices.
Over 1,000 people were recruited into the force as constabularies during the 2021/2022 exercise but were not paid for six months.
(Media & Publicity)
10th NASS: Why I’m running for Speaker despite my ongoing murder trial – Doguwa
“I am particularly heartbroken to see another prominent son of Ozalla (Community) attacked in such a manner.
“We are known for our integrity, neutrality and non-partisanship in election matters, that is why we will not take the case of Adamawa lightly,” he added.
Following the long debate, the House mandated that security agencies be on alert to forestall the possible breakdown of law and order
Mr Oni pursued his petition against the victory of Mr Oyebanji in the election to the Supreme Court.
We have now created a facility that can train and support hundreds of entrepreneurs at full capacity.
The Head of National Office, Patrick Areghan, in his remarks, noted that a total of 1,621,853 candidates across 20,851 government and private schools registered for the examination.
While speaking at the 100th anniversary of Mr Ajibola’s alma mater, Baptist Boys High School (BBHS), Abeokuta, Mr Osinbajo extolled the exemplary lifestyle of Mr Ajibola, asking the coming generation to emulate him.
On an annual basis, Nigeria’s output level also indicated a drop of 16.7 per cent to 999,000 bpd in April 2023, from 1.2 million bpd recorded in the corresponding period of April 2022.
He said in 2011, he lost the PDP presidential primary election to President Goodluck Jonathan and in 2015, he lost the APC primary election to President Muhammadu Buhari.
The Rivers governor had contested and lost in the PDP presidential primary.
“The legendary arbitrator was at different times, the President of the Nigerian Bar Association (1984-1985), President, The World Association of Judges, Chairman, Body of Senior Advocates of Nigeria and President, World Bank Administrative Tribunal among other notable accomplishments.”
In October 2017, an attempt by the defendants to dismiss the Mareva injunction granted on the properties was subsequently dismissed by Oluremi Oguntoyinbo, the trial judge.
The 58-year-old comic actor, in another video, tackled vice-chancellors, who he claimed politicians used as pawns.
“So, if we find in the course of further consultations the mistakes that need to be looked at, we will look at them.
In a recent interview on Channels Television, Mr Baba-Ahmed insisted that his interpretation of a section of the constitution was the right interpretation and that anyone who swears in the president-elect, Bola Tinubu, as declared by INEC, is ending democracy in Nigeria.
To further justify its crowning of Mr Tinubu as president-elect, the electoral umpire noted that “the margin of lead between” Mr Tinubu and Atiku was 1,810,206, adding that the total number of Permanent Voters Cards (PVCs) collected in areas where elections did not hold or were cancelled were 994,151.
U.S. President Joe Biden said on Friday he ordered investigators to determine why the alleged leaker had access to the sensitive information, which included records showing purported details of Ukrainian military vulnerabilities and embarrassed Washington by revealing its spying on allies.
The Nigerian leader had earlier visited some historic religious places in Madinah on Tuesday and Wednesday before he proceeded to Makkah for the Umrah.
The WHO had recently listed 55 countries, including Nigeria as countries facing the most pressing health workforce challenges related to UHC.
It is well positioned, and all it needs is that leadership and vision which you have shown and we pray that your successor will key into this and ensure we actualise it.
The report noted that there is a need to address the nation’s dismal tax revenue to GDP ratio.
Kaduna State, in the north west side of the country, has been witnessing series of terrorists activities as well communal and religious clashes for years.
Defence 3 claimed the man was killed by the Kamajors, a group of traditional hunters, who were loyal to Ahmed Tejan Kabbah, the Sierra Leonean President at the time.
Mr Undiandeye noted that Nigeria and its Armed Forces had remained committed to global peace and security.
He said he called on the Speaker to seek his “understanding and support.”
He noted that the operations resulted in a considerable reduction of piracy in Nigeria’s maritime domain.
“This same Emefiele now wants to proceed on study leave when he has some 10 months left of his tenure apparently in a bid to evade rendering accounts.
I send my best wishes to Christians in Nigeria and all over the world who are celebrating Easter this Sunday.
He cited Section 108(3) of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act (ACJA), 2015 which stipulates that the court can, in its exercise of its powers, acquitted the defendant of a charge if satisfied with the merit of a case after withdrawal.
He secured 762,134 votes to beat his closest challengers — Olajide ‘Jandor’ Adediran of the PDP who polled 62,449 and Gbadebo Rhodes-Vivour of the LP who got 312,329 votes.
That same year, an elderly white man made headlines when he mimed Pasuma’s Fuji song fluently, wording the Yoruba language like a native speaker, a pointer to the fact that Fuji music drummed a global appeal.
Nairobi, May 12, 2023—Ethiopian authorities should immediately release journalist Gobeze Sisay and cease harassing members of the press at home and abroad, the Committee to Protect Journalists said Friday.
At different times, he had unsuccessfully sought to be Nigeria’s president.
Mr Dujarric said the UN chief spoke earlier in the day to President William Ruto of Kenya and with the Chairperson of the African Union (AU) Commission, Moussa Faki.
“We put heads together having discovered what the menace of drug abuse is and it’s rampant in the society.
He spend years in the service before dabbling into business.
The National Assembly and all the 36 State Assemblies had spent 3 years and expended billions of Naira considering a total of 68 Bills.
“Nothing was heard again until November last year when (another) GOC sent 20 soldiers to my house to come and remove my things but after some intervention from senior colleagues they left.
The ruling All Progressives Congress has so far won 162 seats out of the 325 seats declared by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC).
Like Aristaeus, the Greek benevolent god
Abia Governor-elect accuses Ikpeazu’s administration of looting govt properties
You are aware that in the Ninth Assembly that we lost almost 15 members to pressure.
My plans for better welfare and working conditions are clearly spelt out in my Renewed Hope Agenda for A Better Nigeria.
“He needs to explain, among others, how seized assets by the EFCC are being sold without adherence to due process,” he said.
Deciding the crux of the suit, the judge held that the provisions of Sections 839 to 848 “give too much powers over the affairs of an incorporated trustees.”
Watching a sporting event on TV is the ideal alternative if you can’t make it to the event
Mr Bayawa said that Mr Lamido scored 112,764 votes to defeat Gwanda Shuaibu of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) who polled 107,834 votes.
The warning is contained in a statement issued on Wednesday in Benin by the Edo Commissioner for Health, Obehi Akoria.
The Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NiDCOM) says another flight with a batch of evacuees is expected on Sunday, with conclusion ongoing on necessary clearance for take off.
When motivated by a higher ideal, a higher sense of honour, it transforms into righteous indignation and we are compelled to hold up a sign that says, No, Enough is enough.
Ijaw Youth Council backs NDDC on Niger Delta’s railway project proposal
The COVID-19 pandemic, health emergencies, and worsening climate situations negatively impact the continent’s efforts to accelerate progress toward achieving Universal Health Coverage.
He has handed over to the most senior director in the commission,” she said in a telephone interview.
Mr Yari added that politics was all about dialogue and communication, saying that all sides should be given a fair hearing.
“Most of the residents cooperated, except for the few who ignored and continued erecting their structures in the ‘Red Zones’,” the statement added.
Its lawyer, Solomon Okedara, argued that the cited aspect of the code suppressed its rights to freedom of expression as well as those of its associates and collaborators.
But Mr Massaquoi and his lawyers have maintained his innocence.
“I have experienced this before, and it was terrible, so if I knew of the strike, I would have stayed back home,” she said.
“This book should be read by anyone who cares about the fate of these brave girls and their families and anyone who believes in the transformative power of literature.
“On 17th March 2023, Unilever Nigeria Plc announced changes in its business model to exit Homecare and Skin Cleansing categories,” Unilever Nigeria stated in its recently released 2022 audited annual report.
But post-election engagement, as scientifically foreseen by HD, has turned out to be hugely important.
• Oyewumi Kamorudeen Olarere Osun West
“The fighting power of our army was at a low ebb as of May 2015.
The YPP senator said the South-east caucus in the Senate was not consulted before the APC zoned the leadership positions in the 10th Senate.
The team created a low-cost fetal heartbeat and uterine contraction monitor that can be used in the home to detect signs of preterm labour.
Sheikh Habeebullah Adam Abdullahi Al-Ilory 08023126335
It is an agenda to obliterate the memories of the founding fathers of this country and the only institution which is the last bastion of moulding Nigerians devoid of the things responsible for our arrested development as a nation.”
These people will face emergency levels of food insecurity with extremely high rates of acute malnutrition and mortality in the absence of sustained scale-up of humanitarian assistance.
“This move ensured that the indigenous companies grew their capacity tremendously and they are now accountable for about 30 per cent of national oil and gas production up from just about 2 per cent in 2010.
The guy, coming to realization of what happened, quickly sat on the floor feigning injury.
The key component of the programme was the payment of monthly stipends to qualified beneficiaries through their accounts maintained with various banks in Nigeria.
“The second container conveying the 392 jumbo bales of used clothing was intercepted on Umeikaa-Aba Road.
Zenith traded 24.9 million shares estimated at N597.3 million in 426 transactions.
Residents said the village chief is being questioned in the state capital.
Mr Omotosho held that what the doctrine sought to achieve was to prevent tyranny by concentrating too much powers in one organ.
This follows the 1st March declaration by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) of his victory in the keenly contested February 25th election.
According to him, if Mr Ogundeji did not desist from such action, he would be prosecuted as his actions towards the speaker was against the law.
He blamed the destruction of about a combined 13,461 hectares of forest reserves, including the Akpaka forest in Onitsha, for being responsible for the erosion challenge in Anambra.
The locals blamed a poor drainage system in the area for the floods.
The customisation screen is very easy to use.
The Global Fire Power (GFP) is an organisation which ranks every country’s military capacities annually based on factors such as the number of serving military members – the naval, and air force and fuel availability for military operations, the number of jet fighters, the defence budget, and logistic flexibility.
“The voting pattern during the general election showed that Bayelsa is totally PDP; our government has been able to bring back members who have left.
Mr Utazi, in his motion, expressed worries that the Senate had been silent on the ordeal Mr Ekweremadu is facing in the UK.
Myriads of lenders including South African and French big banks, even underwriting powerhouse Axa, have kept off the heated oil pipeline project, the largest of its kind in the world.
The UK court heard in evidence and acknowledged that the victim, identified as Susan “also referred to being raped by her father on ‘one or two’ occasions after he had taken her back to live in Nigeria… the police in Nigeria were informed, but did nothing in response to the report.”
“Since 2011, ADF has supported several thousand IDPs in Yobe, Borno, Adamawa, and Abuja with a total spending of over 25 billion naira in the provision of food, shelter, and health services,” the statement said.
Civil Servants in Cross River said the lifting of embargo placed on promotion of civil servants by Governor Ben Ayade came late.
“The ocean surge is the reality of rising temperatures and sea levels due to carbon emissions.
Nigeria receives air traffic control radar from Argentina
Mr Gbajabiamila, in a message by his Spokesperson, Lanre Lasisi, on Thursday, also congratulated the Muslim faithful for the successful completion of the 1444/2023 Ramadan, in which he said lessons must have been learnt.
This provision is not being complied with.
We thank you for your leadership, you provided a level playing field for every one of us to make his contributions irrespective of our various and varying backgrounds devoid of partisanship but maintaining focus and fairly managed a platform of NEC.
All the special assistants to the governor have been relieved of their appointments.
“We are Ikwerre, the owners of Rivers State, yes we have all the tribes like Kalabari and others.
The current N30,000 minimum wage for federal and states was approved in 2019 following the passage of the Minimum Wage Bill by the National Assembly.
The residents are mainly fishers, farmers and traders.
The reporters asked Mr Akpabio about his consultations with other lawmakers and his party, the All Progressives Congress.
But PDP Publicity Secretary, John Akans, described the allegations as unfounded and laughable.
“We have deployed several means available, including reaching out to the traditional ruler of Isiguzoro’s community for him to desist from the damages he causes to the image of the apex Igbo socio-cultural organisation, the Ohanaeze Ndigbo, to no avail,” Ohanaeze added.
He said: “We are people who have been aspiring for the office of speakership for the House of Representatives at the 10th National Assembly.
Mr Agbata insisted that the kingship stool of the community was not rotational but inherited in the Aganama family.
She also said challenges associated with the evacuation process are already being addressed.
UNHCR’s Laura Lo Castro tweeted about a joint mission conducted with the UN World Food Programme (WFP), the UN Children’s Fund (UNICEF) and Chad’s national commission in charge of refugees, to observe the influx of new Sudanese refugees in the east, “assess urgent needs and agree on [a] response plan”.
The team left Nigeria on Thursday for the summit scheduled to begin on Friday in the DRC capital.
Nwagbara and handed over to Governor Ugwuanyi.
The data by the Global Firepower ranking, which was last updated in January 2023 said the Armed Forces of Nigeria has one of the largest combat services in Africa with estimated 215,000 personnel including 80,000 paramilitaries.
The secretary of the tribunal, Ibrahim Sada, disclosed this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Monday in Ibadan.
But the court had to adjourn the case against on Tuesday due to Mr Uzukwu’s absence from court.
The NSCDC said it has ordered its Adamawa commander to immediately hand over the command to his deputy in order to ensure smooth investigation.
But if they had met the girl in police custody, they would have set her free.”
While sympathisers attempted to shield the victim from the beating, one of the officers appeared to be threatening them – the sympathisers – and cocking his rifle.
The Kaduna State Government demolished the hotel and revoked its Certificate of Occupancy in 2020
President Volodymyr Zelensky of Ukraine has asked Nigeria’s president-elect, Bola Tinubu to visit his war-ravaged country after inauguration.
C & I Leasing appears on the list on the twin strength of trading significantly below its actual value and trading close to its lowest price in 52 weeks.
Binani further argued that INEC usurped the powers of the election tribunal by nullifying the declaration originally made.
He obtained his Bachelor’s degree in Law (LLB) at the Holborn College of Law, University of London between 1959 and 1962 and was called to the English Bar at the Lincoln’s Inn in 1962.
“And finally, the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) Mushin, in whose division all the officers aforementioned are serving, has been relieved of his posting with immediate effect.”
• Ngwu Osita Enugu West
A team of undergraduate students from Washington University in St. Louis, Fistula Fighters, won first place at the competition with their design of a custom-fitted urine collection cup and bag that are discretely integrated into a pair of bicycle shorts that can be worn under skirts or pants.
A statement by Josephine Adeh, the police public relations officer in the FCT on Monday in Abuja, said that one person died in the clash and another was hospitalised.
“Lack of representation of female sources as women experts in news is one of the reasons the Centre is working to develop a Women Experts database for journalists in Nigeria which will be made public soon,” she said.
In our Tuesday report, this newspaper stated that:
The emergency services used helicopters to bring people to safety.
Another explanation on the WhatsApp group for Nigerians in Sudan said it was due to some logistics issues.
But Mr Osuntokun did not move.
Mr Arase said he would continue to take conscious steps to bring about the required peace, cordiality and harmony between the two critical institutions of government.
The Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) says that buildings encroaching on airport land in Lagos and other parts of the country will be demolished.
May time be kind enough, as I need a mic to sing the praise of Mike, The Sun of Adenuga
Homegrown talent took centre stage in music as Nigerians sought the latest tunes.
The two foreign nationals arrested for trafficking wildlife products had allegedly paid bribes to Kinshasa authorities to ship the commodities.
He also called for the payment of 50 months arrears for the staff of Hill station Hotel and the compensation of landowners in Zanwra, Miango in Bassa local government.
Atiku, in the petition he submitted to the tribunal, urged the court to cancel the election and order a fresh election due to alleged irregularities that marred the 25 February poll in thousands of polling units.
In a statement on Thursday, Willie Bassey, the director of information at the office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, said Mr Buhari also “directed the immediate investigation and prosecution, if found liable, of Barr.
Mr Ekwo then turned to Binani’s lawyer, Mohammed Sheriff.
One of the students’ leaders, Nura Illiyasu, said the crisis caused a lot of depravity in Sudan government infrastructures as the country’s central market in Khartoum, the airport, and the Ministry of Higher Education have all been destroyed.
The committee, chaired by Yusuf Yusuf (APC, Taraba Central) was constituted at the plenary last Tuesday to investigate transactions allegedly carried out by the NDDC under its 2021 and 2022 budgets without the approval of the Senate.
Established in 2011, the paper is known for offering the deepest investigative stories and analyses about Nigeria.
While explaining the concept of budgeting to the members-elect, Mr Akabueze bemoaned the lack of organic law on budgeting in Nigeria.
I am not defending it.”
After listening to the submissions, Mr Tsammani said the petitioners would state their position and tender documents.
The inadequacy of attention and resources allocated to the last two suggestions listed above have since been haunting Nigeria since 25 February.
Mr Doguwa, who is the Majority Leader of the House, is the latest aspirant to declare interest in the position.
“These allegations can promptly be investigated and suspected perpetrators named and shamed.
“AI is just beginning to accelerate changes in the global economy and labour market, and LinkedIn is more essential than ever to help our members and customers navigate the changes to access economic opportunity,” he said.
The students had embarked on the protest over the imposed N5,000 late registration fee by the university.
PT: What were the innovations?
Easter: IGP orders security patrols, protection of public spaces
He said the movement of the funds was authorised by the Minister of Finance.
Mr Akintujoye had tweeted about seeing some officers dressed like the now disbanded Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) on the Lekki-Epe expressway in Lagos.
In an interview with PREMIUM TIMES’ reporter on the sideline of the event, the Chairman of Arewa Consultative Forum, Kano Chapter, Faruk Umar, noted that China needs to improve its ease of doing business with Nigerians, especially in the area of visa issuance.
“It is a long range primary radar which can detect any aircraft in flight that is willing or unwilling to be seen,” Managing Director of the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency Pwajok Lawrence told PREMIUM TIMES.
• Dandutse Mutari Mohammed – Katsina South
PREMIUM TIMES spoke with Ms Iwang Tuesday morning.
It lacks merit and indeed substance,” the minister told the lawmakers.
It is not by coming to act in drama on television.
Everyone who is working either in the private sector or civil society is contributing.
2023 UTME: JAMB announces date for rescheduled exams
He explained that in-service training had now been restored after the government lifted the Executive Order it issued banning it, to enable workers to acquire more knowledge for optimal performance and productivity.
Accepting the resurrection has consequences because we have to then accept that true, there is no other name by which there is salvation (Acts 4: 12).
He said the Osun governor has displayed confidence in the progress of the party and development of the nation.
The training was held at the Martin Luther Agwai International Leadership and Peace Keeping Centre (MLAILPKC) in Jaji, Kaduna State.
Nigeria’s land army strength encompasses 177 tanks, 15,748 vehicles, 30 self-propelled artillery, 339 Towered artillery, 37 rocket artillery, and a total aircraft of 144, the breakdown by GFP ranking said.
The incoming administration, to be led by Bola Tinubu of the All Progressives Congress, must also take deliberate steps to help the sustainability of media outlets while respecting press freedom and freedom of speech.
“We will not allow this parliament to be disgraced.
According to the minister, the infrastructure and staffers are ready and only await the final approval by the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO).
The officer, Ebri Ubi, allegedly killed the victim, Onyeka Ibe, on Wednesday at about 9:30 a.m. while on ‘stop and search’ duty along Ugbolu -Illah Road in Oshimili North Local Government Area of the state.
“Other items recovered include 87 Detonators, 33 rolls of detonator cables, 11 safety fuses, 43 main explosive chargers, 25 motorcycles, 21 mobile phones, boafeng radios, 887 rustled cattle, seven trucks and the sum of N230,900.
She said she was rescued out of the community by a friend around midnight.
Justice Fadawu convicted and sentenced him to nine years imprisonment without the option of a fine.
These are communities they believe they have problem with,” he said.
“As a defender of human rights, the CP assures members of the public, the Police Officers will be investigated in line with extant rules underlying the conduct of police personnel, and appropriate sanctions meted accordingly,” the statement said.
He said the maintenance work would restore the driving surface and the aesthetics.
“Let me categorically state that you are to discharge your duties in consonance with the mission’s mandate at all times.
“The returning officer failed to follow the prescribed procedure where results are not submitted in good time,” the petitioners said.
AGILE, which is a federal government initiative in partnership with the World Bank, is currently running in Borno, Ekiti, Kaduna, Kano, Kebbi, Plateau and Katsina States.
Themed: “Time to Deliver Zero Malaria: Invest, Innovate, Implement”, this year’s activities aim to raise awareness of the need to implement the tools and strategies to prevent the disease.
He said the deployment was part of the commission’s commitment towards ensuring credible and transparent elections in the zone.
“They beat the priest, entered the home for elderly women and the dormitory for girls attached to the church in search of money to steal.
In February, Nigeria alone accounted for 44 per cent of total airlines blocked funds in the entire world.
“Besides, he was a great religious influencer and philanthropist who established the faith-based Crescent University in his hometown, Abeokuta.
“Unfortunately also, the national executive of the party refused to look at the issues and address them for whatever reason.
“But charge for robbery will not suffice because I don’t see ingredients of robbery there given that when he took the phone, he didn’t convert it to his personal use,” Mr Ezenwobodo said.
Mr Sirika also assured that the national carrier, Nigeria Air, would take off before May 29.
“User feedback is critical for us to keep improving.
He urged the court to disregard the response filed against his preliminary objection by the plaintiff, arguing that it was filed outside the seven days allowed under the court’s rules.
Moreover, African states are weary of the West’s fearmongering around Russia and China, saying Western countries are more concerned with combating their rivals than furthering Africa’s interests.
Among the most searched individuals, Peter Obi, the Labour Party presidential candidate, captured the top spot, outpacing even Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the president-elect of Nigeria.
On 16 August 2021, Mr Buhari signed the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB) 2021 into law.
They also made several calls for the government to abolish the policy that forces polytechnic graduates to retire in lower cadres of civil services than their counterparts who graduated from the universities.
“They also include AIG Zone 8 Lokoja, Babatunde Ishola; AIG Counter Terrorism Unit Alexander Wannang; AIG Zone 2 Lagos, Ari Ali; AIG Zone 9 Umuahia, Mamman Umar; Commandant Police Academy, Wudil, Sadiq Abubakar and AIG FCID Annex Lagos, Frank Mba.
Speaking shortly, Mr Bomai thanked the Almighty Allah for the victory.
Mr Buhari says Nigeria’s size and resources have imposed on her a stabilising role in the West African subregion and the African continent as a whole.
On his part, Kris Kpanga, another retired police officer, told this newspaper that Mr Ohadoma was wrong to have grabbed Mr Ahamefula’s phone, saying he could have reported the matter to the police, despite being, initially, a civil case.
He said: “The discrimination against HND holders in Engineering, in particular, has dampened and demoralised the morale of technologists, thereby resulting in low productivity.
“ECOWAS did not tell us thank you.”
Mr Gbajabiamila, while speaking to journalists after the March meeting held at the State House, said the decision will be taken after the governorship elections.
Materials left Mbaitoli Local Government Area to respective polling units with a heavy presence of security personnel.
According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), the annual peak of Lassa fever cases is typically observed during the dry season (December–April), adding that the number of infections is expected to rise further until the end of the dry season.
Reacting to calls by the opposition for the cancellation of the 2023 elections over alleged violence, the minister said it is unjustifiable and uncalled for.
Mr Tinubu stated this in a statement he personally signed on Wednesday.
Electoral lessons learnt from 2023 will make subsequent polls better – Buhari
The project is set within the wider realm of the Nigerian National Social Protection Policy, in which social safety nets are part of the broader social assistance system, as provided by the constitution of Nigeria, Chapter 2, sections 16 & 17.
UPDATED: Former US president Donald Trump appears in court, pleads not guilty
After the presidential election in February, millions of Nigerians went back to the polls on March 18 as Africa’s most populous nation held gubernatorial and state assembly elections.
But, on Sunday, Mr Oginni said the party noticed that the same ballot papers used in Ogun State were also used in Kano State where the NNPP defeated the ruling APC.
It argued that Mr Tinubu failed to secure the statutory 25 per cent of votes cast in two-thirds (24 states) and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT).
It said the last couple of years have seen him move up and down the wealthiest’ scale and that he’s now the 418th richest in the world at 58.
President Buhari noted that Mr Ajibola, having risen to the pinnacle of his career, took his brilliance in law practice to the International Court of Justice at The Hague, “where he served meritoriously between 1991 and 1994.
The World Health Organisation (WHO) has declared an end to the outbreak of the Mpox virus as a public health emergency.
“The embassy of the Federal Republic of Nigeria in Sudan wishes to inform all Nigerian citizens who wish to be evacuated from the crisis in Sudan, that the embassy will commence the second phase of evacuation to Egypt for onward airlift to Nigeria, tomorrow 29th April, 2023,” the embassy announced in a memo.
However, the group said for the size of the economy, government revenue and expenditure are grossly inadequate to effectively drive policy, enhance economic growth, lower poverty, and achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
She asked me about my test and the result,” said.
Central banks need to remain steady with their tighter anti-inflation stance but also be ready to adjust and use their full set of policy instruments including to address financial stability concerns as developments demand.
The organization stated that it will consider using all available legal means to seek redress if Mr Buhari fails to take action.
But in the preliminary objection filed against the petition by Mr Tinubu’s lead lawyer, Wole Olanipekun, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), contended that Atiku and the PDP’s claim of noncompliance with the provisions of the Electoral Act was baseless..
In the committee’s report submitted in 2022, FAAN said out of 254 buildings evaluated, 220 buildings were recommended for regularisation, as they pose no direct or critical security and safety challenges to the airport.
“NEC considered the disciplinary committee’s report which recommended the suspension of the former Youth Leader, Mr Anslem Eragbe and recommended him for expulsion at the next national convention.
The businessman on Tuesday accused Chairman of Transcorp accused the chairman of Transnational Corporation of Nigeria (Transcorp), Tony Elumelu, of backstabbing him repeatedly at his most vulnerable moments in business.
Speakership: Lawmakers-elect of minority parties set up committee to pick consensus candidate
He has always supported African presidents who were pan-Africanists in disposition and others.”
She noted that the families of the team members have been informed.
“Obi is, however, very popular, particularly among the young, educated, urban and sophisticated,’’ he said.
PREMIUM TIMES reported that the governors of the ruling APC had in a memo to the president-elect, Bola Tinubu, proposed the zoning of the position of the speaker to the North-west or North-central geopolitical zones.
Apart from the red list which has 54 countries including Nigeria, Ghana, and Congo, there are other countries on the amber and green lists.
On 15 February 2020, Mr Fagbewesa’s bags arrived at Heathrow and were checked by the Border Force.
“Oh yea, he was the man in charge,” said Hz.
Mr Buhari said the housing project is part of government’s efforts to curb poverty and provide shelter for citizens.
In the Spanish legal profession, 62 per cent of lawyers across the public sector are female, although, in this jurisdiction, only 38 per cent are in the most senior positions.
“Does it mean now that if the PDP wants to win the election, it would give the ticket to Dino and you say tomorrow that you were rigged when you have already killed yourself?” Mr Wike said.
“Consequently, the said sections are hereby struck down for being inconsistent with the constitution of the Federal Republic ofNigeria.”
Declaring the results of the supplementary elections, the Returning Officer for the Sokoto South Senatorial District, Abubakar Bagudo, said Mr Tambuwal scored 100, 860 to defeat Ibrahim Danbaba, a senator of All Progressive Congress (APC) who got 95, 884 votes along with others.
They hail from Ibagwa-Aka, a community in Igbo-Eze South Local Government Area of Enugu State, but reside with their parents in Igbo-Ukwu Community, Anambra State.
Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu of All Peoples Congress (APC) had won the election with no fewer than two million votes ahead of the Labour Party’s Peter Obi who came third with Abubakar Atiku of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) coming second.
The extremely wealthy Tinubu is himself known to be an enthusiastic participant in the art of “compromising”; some Nigerians call him a “drug baron” because, in 1993, he forfeited to the United States government $460,000 of his income that a Chicago court determined to be proceeds from heroin trafficking,” she added.
The Jigawa State students recently evacuated from troubled Sudan have pleaded with the state government to consider transferring them to another country to complete their educational pursuits.
Why North-west deserves speaker, deputy senate president – Aspirant, Tajudeen Abbas
He said that the issues in question were about facts, the law and due process.
While reading the citation of the new permanent secretaries, Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, said the event was the culmination of weeks of pre-qualification exercises for directors, conducted by the Office of the Head of Civil Service of the Federation.
He told the court: “With hindsight, I accept that that was not appropriate and I am sorry I did it, but I did.”
According to the statement, the programmes approved by the regulatory body include a Masters of Science Degree in Communication for Social and Behaviour Change and Masters in Business Administration (MBA) in a hybrid mode.
Mr Moses, whose group has protested the results of the 25 February presidential election, also called for the boycott of Mr Soyinka’s literary materials.
Governor Dave Umahi of Ebonyi State says his family conspired against him to vote for the Labour Party (LP) presidential candidate, Peter Obi, in the 25 February presidential election in the state.
Five arraigned over lynching of driver in Ondo
At the last adjourned date of 15 March, the prosecutor, Ekene Iheanacho, complained of the slow pace of the trial, following an application for adjournment by the defence.
“During interrogation, Risku confessed that he had been committing cattle rustling with his father, one Suleiman Aga’ala who was convicted for cattle rustling in Angwan-Maireke village, in Beji.
Mrs Odunlami said the police were investigating the cause of the crisis.
“Why would Kogi people say they would vote for a candidate like Dino?
In the list of nominees seen by PREMIUM TIMES, there was no Igbo person on the committee.
At the event, which was held at the provincial coordination office in the Redemption Camp, the former governor advised the incoming government to unite the nation by focusing on diversity management, consensus building and being deliberately inclusive.
Those who fail to appreciate this are entirely free to their existence in an illusory world.
South Africa has a particular grievance because of its BRICS membership and strong historical ties to Russia, or at least the Soviet Union.
Mr Adebutu further said he wss in possession of credible intelligence that attempts were being made to kidnap him before the determination of his petition.
The industrial action left many air passengers stranded at both the International and local wings of the Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA2 and MMIA) in Lagos.
“The ministry calls on the international community and human right organisations to condemn this barbaric behaviour by the rebel Rapid Support militia,” he said in the statement.
Aloy Ejimakor, Mr Kanu’s special counsel, disclosed this in a statement, Wednesday.
He said the IGP has mapped out strategies to ensure that policemen and their families live comfortably in a very decent environment.
He said Mr Iwuanyanwu‘s reported emergence as Ohanaeze president-general does not arise “because it is the Imeobi that will decide” on the issue.
A similar enquiry was also forwarded to Mr Onifade but he has yet to respond at the time of filing this report.
There were, however, some candidates who arrived late to the centres and were barred from taking part in the examination “based on the rules governing the conduct of the test.”
Peter Mbah demands justice for slain APGA’s gov aspirant
He denied the charge.
European court orders Russia to pay compensation to Georgia
In the interview, she defended the letter she wrote and spoke on her support for Mr Obi.
The army says the last trooping and presentation of Colours Parade for its units was conducted in 2007.
“We demand the immediate resumption of the collation of results and its finalisation today.
Mr Buhari had earlier visited and prayed at the Prophet’s Mosque in Madinah.
Couple of hours after we opened the polls, I received a call that BVAS machines were snatched.
“Where the President withholds his assent and the bill is again passed by each House by a two-thirds majority, the bill shall become law and the assent of the President shall not be required,” the section section reads.
Olatunde Busari, SAN – ALTERNATE CHAIRMAN
Mr Iheanacho argued that despite the application by the defence counsel, the defendants ought to be present in court
In his analysis of the report, the minister said it was a ratio of one infraction in over 300 polling units, which he said was not sufficient to void the elections.
“Among the adult male population who are most likely to use these products, adult males who use nitrates for cardiac conditions are most at risk from these products,” she said.
The kidnappers operated for three straight hours after combing eight houses to whisk 29 people away, according to a report by Daily Trust.
At First Bank, seven out of the eight ATMs were destroyed while the premises of Access Bank looked like a war zone, with several big holes on the glass building.
The 2015 Committee was an in-house Committee of the Ministry of Trade and Investment, chaired by the permanent secretary while this 2023 Committee was a high-level inter-ministerial Committee,” another NIPC staff said.
The CePAPS is a leading research Centre of the African University of Science and Technology (AUST), Abuja, dedicated to promoting Pan-Africanism and peace studies throughout the continent.
However, I do not know, and am unable to relate to something known as the “Obidient” or “Obidient Family”.
The layoffs would affect 3.5 per cent of the company’s 20,000-strong workforce.
“My driver left the vehicle insisting he must replace the mirror; I was in the car receiving calls.
She adjourned the case to 4 July.
Others were Simon Ogie (South-south) and Abimbola Olashore(South-west).
“I am not sure that (snatching of phone) strictly may amount to robbery, even though the person has taken law into his hands,” Mr Effiong said.
That task force is a body that brings together the police, military, and intelligence services.
The group’s president, Peter Igbifa, who spoke on the matter on Thursday in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State vowed not to allow anybody scuttle the project idea, according to a report by the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN).
Suspected kidnappers abducted a couple on the Osogbo-Iragbiji Road in Osun on Saturday as they were returning from a church programme at 4 a.m.
Re-run: Appeal Court reserves judgment in suit filed against Doguwa
It, however, declined providing sufficient details about Mr Obi’s ordeal as requested by this newspaper in its reply through the Home Office.
The incident happened on Thursday in Oko Community in Oshimili South Local Government Area of the state when a structure collapsed during the windstorm, according to the Delta State Government.
Don’t elect corrupt people to lead National Assembly – HEDA
PT: That’s a serious promise.
The lawmakers that are in the race include Deputy Speaker Idris Wase (APC, Plateau), Yusuf Gagdi (APC, Plateau), Muktar Betara (APC, Borno), Ben Kalu (APC, Abia), Sada Soli (APC, Katsina), Tunji Olawuyi (APC, Kwara) and Abubakar Makki (APC, Jigawa).
The commissioner advised members of the public, particularly parents, to be very watchful of their kids against criminal-minded elements.
Mr Manasseh Gimba, a resident in Dutse, said the last time he saw the new note was a month ago.
In the South-east Mr Tinubu manage and got 127,605 votes
“We, who are rooting for Senator Barau Jibrin to become the next President of the Senate, believe in his capacity and capability to steer the wheel of the federal parliament towards the path of growth and stability for our dear country, as envisioned by the founding fathers of the ruling All Progressives Congress.
The private sector will remain in the lead while the government provides the enabling environment through policies, as well as supporting infrastructure, systems, control processes and oversight.
Mr Ajibola was Nigeria’s former Attorney-General and Minister of Justice in the military administration of Ibrahim Badamosi Babangida.
University Press makes the pick for trading below its intrinsic value.
The Nigerian Broadcasting Commission (NBC) and the Broadcasting Organisation of Nigeria (BON) have rejected the planned sale of the 600MHz spectrum by the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC).
SERAP files contempt suit against AGF Malami for failing to recover double pay from ex-governors
Most Searched/ Top Searches: What topped Google’s charts?
The former governor of Abia State said that they discussed some key issues on the future of the country.
Both camps claim to represent all the minority parties.
He said: ” We have a lot of professionals, we have lots of academicians and many people who really know what is going on in the society.
He said Mr Asadu had returned from Ibadan, Oyo State, south-west Nigeria, where he plays football for a local football club, to take his father, Romanus, to Nsukka where he would undergo treatment for diabetes.
“Rescuing the remaining Chibok girls is of paramount importance; the task of finding them should not become yet another failed project of the government.
However, there has been clamour that the laws should be amended.
In the affidavit in support of the motion deposed to by Sambo Mayana, a detective with the commission, EFCC averred that most of Mr Yakubu’s depositions did not reflect the correct position of the case.
Moreover, the PDP presidential candidate accused the president-elect of failing to disclose facts of his constitutional qualifications in his Form EC9 submitted to the INEC, in breach of the law.
Former US President Donald Trump on Tuesday appeared in a Manhattan Criminal Court where he pleaded not guilty to 34 felony counts of falsifying business records.
“And as COVID-19 has exposed so brutally, there remain serious gaps in the world’s defences against epidemics and pandemics.
The House said it observed that there has been no reliable data on the inflow into the fund since the Act came into being in 2003.
The four pupils released are Bilha Musa, Faiza Ahmed, Rahma Abdullahi and Hafsa Murtala.
Mr Maikyau noted that the NBA employment bureau was created to serve as an interface in bridging the supply gap of legal personnel in both the public and private sectors.
The arrest of the two suspects led to the rescue of another child – a one-year-old male child.
Mr Doguwa, who represents Doguwa/Tundun Wada Federal Constituency of Kano State, stated this during his official declaration of intent to join the Speakership race at Transcorp Hilton in Abuja on Wednesday.
They should be rescued.
The difficulty is just part of the measures to address the malpractice identified with the process of registration and we can assure Nigerians that JAMB is too responsible to willingly subject applicants to the unnecessary challenges currently being witnessed.”
The commandant said that the father had admitted to committing the act and would be charged in court after concluding the investigation.
This, the report said, illustrates the varying costs of ingredients and living expenses across different regions in the country.
They urged the court to nullify Mr Tinubu’s victory and order a fresh poll amongst other prayers.
Richard Odoh (HB Football Academy)
IPI Nigeria sets agenda for Tinubu on journalists’ safety, press freedom
“The value of drugs and cash seized came to more than N450 billion, while 772.
Mr Umahi said that the losses came in the form of a protest against the PDP and the APC as a result of hardship and other challenges in the country.
He has published many books, academic journals and articles among which are ‘Òrìsà Devotion as World Religion: The Globalization of Yorùbá Religious Culture‘ (the University of Wisconsin Press, 2008) and ‘City of 201 Gods: Ilé-Ifè in Time, Space, and the Imagination‘ (University of California Press, 2011).
“As ally to the Executive arm of government, we shall support this project.
The Independent Electoral Commission, INEC, had fixed Saturday, 15 April, for all outstanding Governorship, National, and State Assembly supplementary elections nationwide.
By virtue of generally strong corporate results for 2022, a good number of equities in the market are becoming attractive and priced low considered side by side with their earnings.
He said the grounds of the petition were incompetent, hence, the court lacked the jurisdiction to entertain them.
His infusions did not, however, water down the genre.
With the pulling out of Mr Umahi from the race, the remaining contenders, apart from Mr Akpabio include Jibrin Barau (Kano), Abdulaziz Yari (Zamfara), Orji Uzor Kalu (Abia), Osita Izunaso (Imo) and Sani Musa (Niger).
CPJ’s text to Djibouti Information Minister Ridwan Abdullahi Bahdon was answered with an error message saying the number could not be identified.
He, however, said that N6 billion had been allocated to institutions in security-prone areas, especially those institutions with internal security challenges as well as institutions with cases of adoptions.
I, indeed, have been on a consultation frenzy with critical stakeholders across the length and breadth of our country to positive acclaim,” he said.
“My view is again to use what is proven, which is that globally, more people are moving towards cities in the last 50 years than at any time before in our human existence, in a trend now defined as rapid urbanization.
Police arrest suspected kidnappers in Delta – Official
No, it is the results as recorded physically on INEC forms provided for the purpose from the polling units, signed by polling agents of political parties, electoral officials and security agents that are uploaded and there is ample opportunity for parties contesting the outcome of the elections to prove if there are discrepancies between the figures on those physical result sheets and the electronic results uploaded on the INEC portal.
The president-elect has also met with a speakership aspirant, Muktar Betara.
“We must further revisit the statutory and other frameworks that have left us seemingly unprepared to respond promptly and effectively,” he said.
Mr Tinubu is yet to speak on the controversy.
The party executives at Kukadi/Gundari ward of Misau Local Government said Mr Misau did not campaign for the party candidates in the just concluded 2023 elections.
A statement by IPI Nigeria says the three crucial committees will help to drive its agenda of promoting journalism practice and media freedom in the country.
Such was the excitement that even before the production was concluded he had programmed the public launch session that was to feature two reviewers namely, Professor Jibrin Ibrahim, renowned fellow of Centre for Democracy and Development (CDD) and myself.
“The prosecution will like to bring to the knowledge of my lord that in collaboration with our international partners, we have been able to apprehend the defendant.
Aside from religion, Mr Gbajabiamila is also from the South-west, the same region as Vice President Yemi Osinbajo.
According to the latest WHO World Malaria Report, the African region continues to carry a disproportionately high share of the global malaria burden.
An Ikeja High Court on Tuesday remanded the driver of a Lagos State staff bus, Oluwaseun Osibanjo, for running the vehicle into a moving train, causing grievous harm and involuntary manslaughter to the passengers.
But Mr Akinosi disputed the narrative of Miss Thomas.
Lawmakers from six minorities parties were in attendance.
In a short acceptance speech watched by PREMIUM TIMES, Mrs Dahiru thanked the people of the state for electing her.
It is a case of expression of interest across the geopolitical zones—within the APC, of course—so it behoves on the party now to come out with a workable zoning plan that will take into cognizance several variables and factors.
The Chairman of Takum Local Government Council in Taraba State, Boyi Manga, has been kidnapped.
Police commission investigates bribe for promotion allegations
The report explained that since the 1970s, Nigeria’s fiscal profile has been tied to the oil sector.
He added that polling unit results would be uploaded on INEC’s Result Viewing portal in real-time.
She said Bebex only “admired” her, adding that she mistook it for molestation.
PSC approves salaries of officers six months after recruitment into police force
The assembly workers are demanding full implementation of the Consolidated Legislative Salary Structure CONLESS) for themselves and their colleagues in the House of Assembly Service Commission.
Amidst all of this was the utter chaos around the uploading and transfer of the results.
“We are happy that all 5,500 Nigerians willing to leave Khartoum have been evacuated and are on their way home to Nigeria,” he said.
According to Forbes, luxury goods tycoon Bernard Arnault‘s net worth surged by $53 billion to $211 billion dollars since last year, a bigger gain than anyone on the planet, to climb to the number one spot for the first time ever on the rise of shares in his company, LVMH.
“The issue of dual citizenship had initially occurred when a Kwara-born politician was to become President of the Senate of Nigeria and was ‘accused’ of dual citizenship of Nigeria and the United Kingdom.”
The president-elect said he observed with satisfaction the peaceful conduct of the supplementary elections, adding that it was a further testimony that Nigerians have accepted democratic norms and faith in the electoral process.
According to him, the applicant (ECOBANK) is not appointed as a financial adviser on the amnesty payment programme and is not given any responsibility for verifying payments to the beneficiaries of the programme under any contract.
Seun Kuti, Afrobeat singer will be spending the night in police custody for assaulting an officer.
“Ensuring additional investment to improve financial risk protection, addressing inequities, and building the resilience of national health systems in the post-COVID era is critical to our efforts to accelerate progress towards UHC in the African Region,” she said.
Mrs Ebenebe said the more reason why farmers should use insect meals is that they contain bioactive substances such as antimicrobial peptides, antioxidants, immune system stimulation and microbiota modulation.
The elders, while condemning alleged profiling of Igbo and their properties for attacks in the state, said it was “strange and inconceivable” that Igbo would be attacked for an election where nobody from the ethnic nationality was a contestant.
“The President-elect decided to take a break after the hectic campaign and election season to rest in Paris and London, preparatory to going to Saudi Arabia for Umrah (Lesser Hajj) and the Ramadan Fasting that begins Thursday,” spokesperson Tunde Rahman said in a statement.
Mr Kawu, in the motion, called for an investigation to address the alleged payment of N20 billion to the consultants by the NNPC Limited.
In July 2022, the global body declared Mpox a public health emergency of international concern (PHEIC), which is the highest level of alert WHO can issue, as cases rapidly increased.
The same thing happened when the Benue State Government met all requirements to secure N42 billion to clear the backlog of salaries, pensions and gratuity.
Federal High Court marks 50 years of justice delivery
It is even very laughable to think that after active, high-profile practice of law culminating in my privilege as a member of the Inner Bar (together with being an International Arbitrator) and thoughtful investments in real estate spanning over 30 years, I cannot afford such a relatively modest property,” the minister wrote.
“Creation of 4.5 million direct and indirect jobs through the Rural Roads programme which targets to connect about 750 rural markets.
The minister also stated that the job of the federal government was to make policy and where the states disagree, they were at liberty to make their own policy.
“Scores of project-affected persons and frontline activists have been made to endure violence, intimidation, forced removals, unfair compensatory processes, the desecration of cultural sites, and the loss of land and other income generating streams,” the activist group said, quoting Zaki Mamdoo Coordinator of the movement, ‘Stop EACOP’.
Meanwhile, the REC in Adamawa State, Hudu Ari, on Sunday, illegally declared Aishatu Dahiru, popularly called Binani, as the winner of the governorship election in the state, throwing the entire process into confusion.
He said the Commissioner of Police in the state, Olanrewaju Oladimeji, had ordered the transfer of the suspects to the homicide section of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligent Department, CIID.
In another video, a news anchor with perfectly combed dark hair outlined what he saw as the United States’ shameful lack of action against gun violence.
On Wednesday the commission said it had referred him to the police for investigations and possible prosecution.
Citing the the CAMA section which empowered the commission to appoint interim managers over the affairs of an association where there is an issue of mismanagement, the court found the provisions as “violation of the tenets of freedom of association and peaceful assembly.”
According to him, the judiciary is expected to be the hope of the people, “but what happens nowadays in our clime worries so many people.
However, this newspaper could not tally the results from some polling units in the council area because they were illegible or not yet uploaded within the period under review.
“Some of these candidates could not receive the notification because their school held on to their channels of receiving messages such as their SIM cards, their e-mail addresses and profile codes,” Mr Benjamin said.
Those released were Aliya Abubakar, Esther Sunday, and Elizabeth Nwafor.
Mr Soyinka who described the word “reconciliation” as “inappropriate and diversionary invocation” said he had no issues to reconcile with Mr Obi or the Labour Party.
Nigerian stocks rally on scramble for Access Holdings’ shares
“How can it be robbery?
Messr Obi and Atiku are challenging the outcome of the election at the Presidential Electoral Tribunal.
Atiku came second in the election, according to the electoral commission, while Mr Obi came third.
“This is in addition to the reforms we have embarked on in education, healthcare, technology, economy, agriculture, and many other sectors,” Mr Obaseki said.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that voters, especially women, came out in large numbers at the polling units while combined teams of security agencies enforced movement restrictions in the Sokoto metropolis.
Two of them are presiding justices of divisions of the Court of Appeal.
STATEMENT OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE NIGERIAN BAR ASSOCIATION, MR YAKUBU CHONOKO MAIKYAU, OON, SAN, ON THE ABDUCTION OF MR. OKEY WALI, SAN
A witness, Ajose Bola, told our reporter that the pupil fell off a motorcycle taking him home in the rain and was swept away by the floodwater.
“The development of drought-resistant crops, use of brackish water in agriculture, development of crops with higher yield, biological pesticides, use of satellites and precision agriculture, all of these Israeli technologies contribute to increasing food security and reducing damage to natural resources.”
The three-man contest is between current President Recep Tayyip Erdogan (AK Party), leading opposition candidate Kemal Kilicdaroglu (CHP), and Sinan Ogan (ATA).
Ayo-Bankole Akintujoye had tweeted about seeing some officers dressed like the now-disbanded Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) on the Lekki-Epe expressway in Lagos.
Inter with the same jersey of blue and black elegantly stepped on the San Siro pitch against their neighbours for the second encounter of the UEFA Champions League on Tuesday night.
Tinubu’s team parleys with international media, says “irregularities” not sufficient to change polls outcome
After all, most opinion polls had predicted a Hilary Clinton victory in the 2016 presidential election in America.
The Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu, disclosed this to reporters after the Federal Executive Council meeting on Monday.
Meanwhile, the company is partnering with New York-based Africa-focused renewable energy developer CrossBoundary Energy for two solar power projects, eight and a half times the size of a football field, said Martin Kochl, the supply chain director.
He is, however, still going to face other charges – assault on police officers, conspiracy and disturbance of public peace, the magistrate ruled.
Mr Kanu, who leads a separatist campaign for the secession of the mainly Igbo-speaking South-east states and parts of neighbouring states as an independent Biafra Republic, is being incarcerated at the headquarters of the State Security Service (SSS) in Abuja.
The 20-page judgment in suit no: FHC/L/CS/1497/2017 signed by Justice Oluremi Oguntoyinbo reads in part: “The Attorney General has argued that the States’ laws duly passed cannot be challenged.
” Because I understand from the National Population Commission that those to be counted must be counted in their localities” Mr Ortom said.
At the 2022 Paris Peace Forum, Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs Catherine Colonna reaffirmed France’s commitment to IFPIM following President Macron’s endorsement of the Fund.
He further said the arrested suspects also mentioned the various criminal hideouts where they operate from.
The institution’s spokesperson, Daniel Okereke, said in a statement on Friday that the approvals were conveyed in a letter to the President of the university and signed by N.B.
She also holds a postgraduate diploma in management from the Université Panthéon- Sorbonne.
A coalition of members-elect of the minority parties have set up a committee to produce consensus candidates for the positions of the speaker and deputy speaker of the House of Representatives from their ranks
It also said the least popular initiative was quota setting, and leadership training was considered by respondents to be the least effective.
Mr Tinubu and the All Progressives Congress (APC)’s lawyer, Wole Olanipekun, and Lateef Fagbemi, both SANs, informed the court they had filed their responses to the pre-hearing questions earlier raised by the court.
Koleoso joined the civil service of the Western Region with the position of Head of the Health Department of the old Saki District Council.
Our reporter observed that First Bank and Access bank had resumed business without fixing most of the destroyed property while UBA was yet to resume.
Russia’s promise of equal participation and African leadership in a new multipolar world order resonates on the continent.
The police charged the gun-weilding Abuja pastor and his two co-defandants with illegal possession of firearms and other related offences.
The arrest of the minister on Wednesday comes about 20 months after his removal from office and less than three weeks to the end of Mr Buhari’s tenure.
Similarly, I urge all citizens of Osun to continue to exhibit the Omoluabi ethos and uphold the dreams of our forebears for the State, irrespective of party affiliations.”
Chimamanda’s piece is a sad reminder that the possession of brilliance and high intellect by an individual provides no immunity against prejudice, bias and bigotry albeit disguised in the deceptive garb of elevated and high minded discourse.
Others are Interim Joint Matriculation Board (IJMB), Joint Universities Preliminary Examination Board (JUPED), NABTEB Advanced National Business Certificate, NABTEB Advanced National Technical Certificate, NABTEB GCE-A’ Level (2015 – 2021), Higher Islamic Studies Certificate by NBAIS, International Baccalaureate and the National Registered Nurse/ Midwife certificates.
Politics is an art of compromise in the interests of the country.”
Also speaking, the Minister of Labour and Employment, Chris Ngige, said the council approved the second phase of the electronic Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund, which will enable concessionaires to upgrade the infrastructure at the sum of N15 billion.
The APC alleged that the suspended chairman displayed his ballot, which revealed he did not vote for the party’s candidate during the gubernatorial election.
Though Mamu was said to have denied these allegations, witness and victim statements and the investigation by the security outfit was said to have revealed a prima facie case against him.
Donald Trump won and that did not make America’s democracy hollow.
This newspaper had earlier reported that the Taiwan and Malaysian authorities had stopped the sale of the chicken flavour of the products following the detection of ethylene oxide, a substance known to cause cancer, in the product.
“If our judiciary will look at various cases on its merit and be consistent in justice dispensation, hope will be rekindled and our democracy will be deepened.
• Dafinone Ede Omueya – Delta Central
In his remarks, the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Isa Pantami, noted that digital innovation and entrepreneurship are critical to building an indigenous digital economy.
The National Assembly was set to override the veto of President Goodluck Jonathan over a constitutional amendment bill seeking to dispense with presidential assent regarding such bills.
He appealed to the doctors to have rethink and help prevent the loss of lives.
With a record of having finished with the silver medals in 1989 and 2005, and with the bronze medals in 1985, the Flying Eagles are hoping to break the duck and collect the top prize in their 13th appearance at a tournament they first graced in Mexico 40 years ago.
President-elect Bola Tinubu has accepted the invitation of Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike to commission some projects in the state on Wednesday.
Mr Akpabio is, however, not the only aspirant with a tainted past.
CP Simon Lough, SAN – ALTERNATE CHAIRMAN
Mr Omoregbe said the election was cancelled in all the 17 polling units as a result of reported snatching of election materials, including Bi-Modal Voters Accreditation Machine System (BIVAS) and others
“Two of the ways of entrenching this democratic transformational agenda is by the disciplining of Mr Ari to serve as an example to other legal practitioners in public service, and also the institution of an Excellence Award to reward and motivate legal practitioners acting right in the public service,” Mr Toyo said.
“We will make faster progress towards the achievement of the peaceful, united, strong, progressive and prosperous country we all desire if we eschew divisive, parochial, ethnic and religious sentiments and rivalries, and begin to live more harmoniously with our compatriots,” he said.
According to the statement signed by Tunde Rahman, Mr Erdogan said in a letter to Mr Tinubu that he believed Nigeria under his (Tinubu) leadership would continue its course to a prosperous future.
At the end of his jail term, Mr Ekweremadu will be near 70.
The court also granted leave to the federal government to include the nine new grounds as part of its amended notice of appeal dated 28 October 2022.
The restiveness that we are seeing across the nation, we’ll do our best to make good laws and to assist the administration to bring about policies that will empower the youths of the country,” he said.
The US embassy in Khartoum said on Saturday that the ongoing fighting and closure of the airport in the capital made it currently impossible to evacuate US citizens.
Her lonely voice on the election of President-Elect Bola Ahmed Tinubu is, at best, a muted trumpet which is audible to no one except herself and her co-travelers.
Mr Kanu, in his suit marked FHC/ABJ/CS/ 2341/2022, urged the Federal High Court in Abuja for permission to apply for an order of mandamus to compel the SSS to allow him unhindered access to his medical doctor, among others.
The governors under the aegis of Progressives Governors Forum (PGF) said they were aware of ‘rumours’ that two lawmakers, one aspiring for Senate President and another for Speaker of the House of Representatives, have expressed willingness to offer between $500,000 and $1 million per lawmaker in exchange for votes.
He spoke on the programme, which, on Wednesday evening, focussed on “Nigerian police officers as perpetrators, victims of harassment.”
The government advised students and other Nigerians awaiting evacuation from Sudan to cooperate with them in order to ensure orderliness and proper documentation while embarking on the buses.
PREMIUM TIMES had earlier reported that the ruling party adopted Tajudeen Abbas, a lawmaker from Kaduna State as the consensus candidate, and Ben Kalu, a lawmaker from Abia State as deputy speaker.
His position did not resonate with the generality of the Afenifere pro-Yoruba elements within the fold.
It argued that Atiku’s right to fair hearing would be breached should the court accede to Mr Obi’s prayers to declare him Nigeria’s president-elect, thereby nullifying Atiku’s votes without hearing him.
Messrs Alabi and Igbakpa stated their positions while speaking on a Twitter Space organised by PREMIUM TIMES and titled, “How should 10th National Assembly Leadership be zoned?”
“This happened after which they dismantled the false packings and recovered the illicit substance.”
Meanwhile, Abike Dabiri-Erewa, chairperson NiDCOM, said the Summit University, Offa, Kwara, was among the higher institutions that showed interest in admitting Nigerian student returnees.
The police spokesperson said some of the gunmen escaped during the shootout and that the three of them who were arrested by the police have already confessed to being members of the ESN and IPOB.
In the North-West, the report reveals that prices remained high from September through January, with a slight decline in February before rising again in March.
“After filling the above form, interested students should also send their below details and documents to this email: nigembegysch@yahoo.com with the following:
Mr Halims questioned the motive behind the rush by the Buhari administration to concession the asset weeks before the end of the administration.
The suspension of two officials of the group by Mr Adebanjo for congratulating President-elect Bola Tinubu on his victory in the election was reversed by Mr Fasoranti.
The protesters warned INEC that if it misbehaves, the land should “take them” but if the right thing is done they would enjoy the land and good things would follow them.
“The Electoral Act 2022 gave INEC the legal backing to have electronic transmission of results and did say in a format INEC could decide and we know that format because the chairman of INEC told us what the format would be when he said that the results would be uploaded at the end of voting from the polling units and that was not done.
She explained: “Referencing the issue of the birthday present, the publishers and editors advised me to remove it.
He said the CPs are Mohammed Gumel, Kano State; Haruna Garba, FCT; Tajudeen Abass, Delta; Oladimeji Olarewaju, Ogun; Taiwo Jesubiyi, Ondo State; and Julius Okoro, Benue.
He said the rules had several innovative provisions for a just and expeditious disposition of cases.
“This is so, just to make sure that people don’t think it’s not their business but that everybody is involved in the issue of securing our borders,” he said.
They took to social media to seek public intervention to unravel the circumstances that may have led to the student’s sudden death while taking part in the school’s sporting events.
He subsequently closed the case.
10, seeking to enforce the legislative summons.
Please do not give the sheen of legitimacy to an illegitimate process.
The pretence that the land is being excised for security reasons falls short of any truth whatsoever.
The commission said it would write the Inspector General of Police, Usman Alkali, to investigate and prosecute Mr Ari.
Police arrest four bank officials over death of debtor’s wife
In a statement on Thursday by the head of his media office, Dan Nwomeh, Mr Mbah described the death of the politician as “painful, horrendous and unacceptable.”
They said the talks were an “ECOWAS Peace Talk.”
Opinion polls do not win elections.
“The Obama peace agreement one was in 2000,” said Defence 3.
The commission also summoned him to Abuja and subsequently barred him from the office.
Despite the stiff opposition against him, INEC declared Mr Tinubu president-elect on 1 March as those against his same faith ticket failed in their vigorous push to stop him from winning the 25 February poll.
The Permanent Secretary, represented by the ministry’s Director of Trade, Suleiman Audu, noted that the conference was in preparation for the next China-Africa Economic and Trade Expo (CAETE), which she noted has been scheduled to hold in Changsha, Hunan, China in the coming months.
But Nigeria’s newly elected President Bola Ahmed Tinubu has had nearly two decades to prepare.
IPOB is leading agitation for an independent state of Biafra which it wants carved out from the South-east and some parts of the south-south Nigeria.
“Our immense appreciation goes to the President, Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces, President Muhammadu Buhari, the Chief of Defence Staff, Lucky Irabor, and service chiefs for their strategic guidance and provision of requisite logistics and operational platforms which have spurred the continuous successes,” he said.
Sudan’s de facto president and commander-in-chief of the army, Abdel Fattah al-Burhan, said he has agreed to facilitate the evacuation of foreign civilians and diplomats.
Some Lagos PDP leaders abandoned the party’s governorship candidate, Abdul-Azeez Adediran, on the eve of the March 18 gubernatorial election to support either the Labour Party (LP) or the ruling APC.
“While coming to the office this morning, I saw in the news that the installation of a new Alaafin of Oyo and Soun of Ogbomoso is being delayed by me.
The Independent National Electoral Commission declared Bola Tinubu of the ruling All Progressives Congress polled 8,794,726 votes to win the election.
A factional IPOB leader, Simon Ekpa, has been accused of being behind the continued sit-at-home orders in the region.
The police subsequently charged the pastor alongside Promise Ukachukwu and Olakunle Ogunleye with criminal conspiracy, illegal possession of prohibited firearms, inciting disturbance and criminal intimidation which they pleaded not guilty to.
“Since I left the university, over 32 years ago, I have had the privilege and luck to be directly and indirectly associated with ICAN members: from the PKF, to Manam Professional Services, and now I am working directly with well over 3,000 members of this Institute as the Executive Chairman of the FIRS.
Manchester City will now face Inter Milan in the final, with the chance to claim their first Champions League title.
“Many eyewitnesses confirmed seeing the rogue officer exiting the Charly-Menz Hotel in Aradagun, reeking of alcohol, shortly before the shooting incident.
“NEMA will decide what would be given to the returnees because the funding is with the Ministry of Humanitarian affairs and Disaster Management.
Cost of preparing Jollof rice up by 9.73% amid insecurity, cash crunch
The prosecution, led by S. A Adebese and Morufu Animashaun, had prayed the court to remand the singee for 21 days, pending legal advice from the Directorate of Public Prosecutions.
“If your role is directly impacted by this decision, you will receive a calendar invitation within the next hour for a meeting with a leader from your team and a representative from our Global Talent Organization (GTO),” he said.
A climate of fear is being generated.
The country was also twice named as one of the top 10 most improved economies in the world as a result of the activities of PEBEC.
“Bribery and corruption of any kind will not be tolerated under his watch,” Mr Ani added.
Onuoha: Well, you already know, that’s my core point agenda”
The Governor of Edo State, Godwin Obaseki, has dissolved the State Executive Council.
“In the context of the case at hand, which is whether it is legitimate for the EFCC to commence investigative activities against the named officials of Anambra State Government as contained in Exhibit 1 concerning the manner of the management and utilisation of the public funds of Anambra State, the question posed must be answered against the Plaintiffs and the corresponding reliefs sought denied,” the judge was quoted as saying.
Koleoso teamed up with the late Lam Adesina, who became Oyo State governor in 1999 and was made Secretary to the State Government in that administration, a position in which he served from 1999 to 2003.
Saudi Government officials, traditional and spiritual leaders from Nigeria as well as some senior staff of the Nigerian Embassy in the Kingdom were at the airport to bid farewell to the president.
I believe in the decision of the party.
The opposition party had also accused Nigeria’s ruling party, APC, of being behind the invasion and the crisis, an allegation the APC denied.
I think doing it for them will help the next election,” he said.
Two minutes later, Mike Maignan parried Laturo Martinez’s header from Hakan Calhanoglu’s freekick.
NSCIA announces end of Ramadan for Nigerian Muslims, Eid-el-fitr is Friday
Are there lessons that the cross and resurrection of Jesus can teach us?
Also, Amina Bukola, the women leader of the Nasrul-Lahi-il Fathi Society of Nigeria (NASFAT), described the theme of the lecture as very topical and timely.
Mr Gbajabiamila, in a tweet on his timeline on Friday, said they are all men he has worked with for many years.
There are about 5,500 Nigerian students who are expected to arrive from Sudan in the evacuation that commenced on Wednesday.
He said the accused persons murdered the deceased in cold blood with sticks, stones and other weapons.
Another theory of the trial is that Mr Massaquoi killed and ordered the killings of civilians and fellow captured soldiers at Waterside in Monrovia.
The event will start by 10am on 9 May and will be held at the main auditorium of the Yar Adua Centre, Abuja, Nigeria’s capital.
Bola Tinubu stepping out of the plane to a cheering crowd at Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport Abuja [PHOTO: TW @lollylarry1]Mr Tinubu’s frequent travels overseas continue to fuel speculations on his health status.
Residents of the area lamented that their properties were always affected whenever rainfall lasted longer than an hour.
JDU/022/2021, delivered by Musa Ubale J on June 30, 2021, and the judgement delivered thereon are accordingly set aside,” he said.
Mr Osinbajo urged the universities to “embark on aggressive marketing to meet their needs rather than blaming the government for all their inadequacies.”
b. Dr. Elizabeth Ikem, former Provost, Nigeria Institute of Journalism (NIJ)
The Federal High Court, Abuja, has nullified some sections of the Companies and Allied Matters Act (CAMA), 2020 which were considered to infringe on the fundamental human rights of the Nigerian citizens.
The president-elect, who left Nigeria on 21 March for Paris on vacation after a hectic campaign and election season, on his return, said he was strong and ready to work.
The Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Hajiya Sadiya Faruk, was invited to shed light on some billions of Naira she allegedly expended in 2020.
“Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu has promised that he will reward loyalty and commitment.
“We requested for users on the platform who have deposited crypto currency to the defendant’s account and their names were provided.
The police spokesperson said the raid followed receipt of “actionable intelligence” that the IPOB members and their militant wing, Eastern Security Network (ESN) had reassembled at the camp to strategise on how to carry out a “dreadful crime.”
Atiku’s call is contained in a statement issued by his spokesman, Paul Ibe in Abuja.
“This survey provides an invaluable opportunity for PREMIUM TIMES readers to have their voices heard and for us, as a team, to improve our content and services to meet your needs better.
Confirming the story, Jude Nwauzor, Head Corporate Communications Department of AMCON, said the enforcement came after a long period of a meticulous court battle.
The university urged parents and guardians to take note of the directive and ensure that their wards return home without delay.
But Mr Awo, who said he was just being served with the further affidavit, said he would need more time to study the document whether fresh facts had been raised.
“We do discrete investigation.
Mr Uzodinma had, in December, threatened to name the alleged sponsors of the attacks in the state, but would later make a U-turn, two weeks after, saying he would rather leave security agencies “to do their work” and prosecute those found culpable.
Delusions fill the vacuum.
The leaked audio has, however, generated controversy on social media as some Nigerians accused NCC of being behind the leak.
The PE ratio as of Friday was 6x, while the EPS is N0.30.
Research so far has shown that in the most expensive senario, one truck will cost $1.5million and at CBN rate, it will be about N690milloin excluding logistics & training
DATA STORY: Details of Nigerians’ voting pattern in 2023 governorship elections
He added that the immediate order to arrest and prosecute Kuti, who had diminished the sanctity of the symbol of authority of the Nigerian nation, was a welcome development.
President Muhammadu Buhari has extended heartfelt condolences to the family, friends and associates of Peter Enahoro, one of Nigeria’s foremost journalists, who died on Tuesday at the age of 88.
NiDCOM added that more buses are arriving this morning and the stranded students will depart today.
Lastly, we are tempted to conclude that President Buhari was not aware of Garba Shehu’s statement, because if the President were aware, he would not have permitted his media aide to release a statement that rather indicts him as Commander-in-Chief of Nigeria’s Armed Forces for abdicating his constitutional duty of providing security to Benue State and other parts of the country, admitting failure and opting to blame a state Governor.
Mr Tinubu emerged as the president-elect in a tight race against former Vice President Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party, Peter Obi of the Labour Party and 15 others.
“I have none except God who will judge us on the last day.”
Supplementary Elections: Tinubu asks Nigerians to shun violence
The Association of All Local Government Chairmen of Nigeria (ALGON) Kano State chapter has denied that the state government is planning to use local government funds to finance elections logistics and vote buying in the 15 April supplementary election in the state.
NNPC Limited had in a statement said it did not pay any ghost consultant, noting that there is an “N18 billion” dispute with Ogun State which is currently in court.
This is the power of the resurrection that mocks the powers of this world.
He then responded to say she hasn’t done anything for me.
“Ending impunity for electoral violence and other electoral offences would promote accountability of suspected perpetrators and their sponsors, ensure justice for victims, and ultimately advance the people’s right to vote as well as bolster voter confidence in the electoral process.”
You just don’t sit on approval because you can or because you occupy an office, there are other people that are also senior to you”, she added.
Other attendees at the burial include ex-Governor of Ogun State Segun Osoba, Deputy Governor of Ogun State Noimot Salako-Oyedele, and Chief Justice of the State Mosunmola Dipeolu.
However, the APC is already celebrating the ‘illegally’ announced result.
After listening to all parties in the petition, the court adjourned proceedings until 19 May.
He also called on them to eschew acrimony, factionalism, selfishness, and develop a spirit of cooperative social dialogue, rather than confrontation, aggression and unnecessary industrial actions with employers.
Let us also remember the sacrifices of those who have lost their lives in the line of duty – who have given their lives so that others can live theirs.’’
The careful introduction of each character allowed viewers to revel in the lives of the five characters, each with secrets waiting to unfold.
“This infrastructure is essential for ensuring that gas is available when and where it is needed, especially in expanding domestic utilisation and it can also help to reduce the cost of gas by increasing competition and efficiency.
Ms Mueller said globally, UNFPA is supporting health systems to provide quality sexual and reproductive health services that reach every person and accommodate diverse population groups, including people with disabilities.
It is not convincing and knowing how much hope and trust the Nigerians invested in this election, knowing that Nigeria is a low-trust society means that if the people are truly sincere and have nothing to hide they will make (an) extra effort to explain to Nigerians what happened.
“I would like to use this opportunity to apologise to them for the way everything has played out,” she said, apologising to her parents.
Mr Tinubu won in his South-west home; North-west and North-central.
The $800m facility sourced from the World Bank for the NASSP Scale-Up demonstrates the Federal Government’s commitment to social care, and social assistance and is part of the long-term framework towards reducing poverty, rolling back the effects of economic shocks, and improving the living standards of poor Nigerians.
“Nigerians appreciate the stability of democracy.
“Consequently, all candidates who sat the examination are urged to check their results on or before Thursday, 8th May, 2023.”
Moving patients between states when they are suspected of having a dangerous infectious disease exposes lots of people to the risk of infection,” he cautioned.
Wike, Makinde visit Tinubu, pledge support for incoming administration
In 2020, for instance, the UBA issued a press release published across Nigerian online and traditional newspapers, urging customers to be vigilant and stop divulging sensitive data to third parties.
Mr Ali also directed that the officer be transferred to the State Criminal Investigation Department of the police in the state for “a thorough and speedy investigation,” Mr Edafe said.
Bozimo was in the role between 2003 and 2007, while the payments were made between 2006 and 2009.
“It simply did not arise.
Learn the rules of good sportsmanship, know rules, know your roles, know when to fight, what to fight for and know when to walk away so you can embrace other fights.
World Health Day is celebrated on 7 April annually to draw attention to specific health topics of concern globally.
The company said it believes that more than at any time in history, people all over the world are now benefiting from safe and effective vaccines to prevent infections and diseases.
Over 800 Nigerian lawyers, including the NBA president, made the membership lists of the 20 committees in the new appointments.
The Federal Operations Unit, Zone ’C’, Owerri, of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) intercepted contraband goods valued at N2.8 billion between 25 January and 25 March.
Mr Erojikwe listed some partners to the conference to include the Institute of African Studies, Department of Theatre and Film Studies, Department of History and International Relations and Centre for Igbo Studies, UNN, Council for Igbo States in America, and Centres for Igbo Studies, Dominican University, Chicago, United States.
Others are 32 blocks of 2-bedroom flats in a block of 8 flats; 14 blocks of 1-bedroom flats in a block of 16 flats and 5 blocks of terrace duplexes in 4 rows.
In addition, the aggrieved aspirants urged the court to compel the APC to conduct a fresh primary election; providing a leve playing field for all aspirants as statutorily required.
It is perceived as one of the most corrupt countries in the world.
The naira dropped to an all-time low on the official market last week Friday after it closed at N464.00 to a dollar.
“For all you have done and for all Imo people, there is no dissenting voice,” he said.
Mr Igbakpa, on his part, denied the governors’ claim, adding that they may have exaggerated the matter.
Desmond Yamah – ALTERNATE CHAIRMAN
“That it may be determined that the declaration and return of the 1st respondent” by INEC “as the president-elect of …Nigeria is invalid, null and void.”
“Mr Mojeed was selected for the fellowship alongside two other journalists from different parts of the World.”
The team and Guinean government officials worked for three days, and came up with an economic roadmap.”
Senator-elect for Nasarawa West Senatorial District, Ahmed Wadada (SDP-Nasarawa), made the declaration on behalf of the North-central Senators-elect caucus at a news conference in Abuja on Friday.
The president also granted the request of the Board of MOFI to charge management and transaction fees; and the inclusion of the Minister of Power in the Governing Council.
Francis did not say, however, to which accusations he was referring.
In a statement signed by the Spokesperson, ministry of foreign affairs, Francisca Omoyuli, “the non-adherence of the warring parties to numerous international calls for a ceasefire has worsened the plight of civilians and made it impossible to embark on their evacuation.”
Watch it play out.
Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Ahmed Wase [PHOTO CREDIT: Hon Ahmed Idris Wase on Facebook]So far, Mr Wase has taken his campaign beyond the National Assembly.
“Any policeman on patrol and stop and search should be in complete uniform.
“We thank you for your patience, support and understanding.”
Led by the Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, the group had also campaigned unsuccessfully to have a southerner replace the then PDP’s National Chairman, Iyorchia Ayu, in order to achieve a “regional balance” since both Atiku and Mr Ayu are from the north.
On a year-on-year basis, the statistics office said this rose by 3.34 per cent in Q4 2022 from the figure reported in Q4 2021.
I’m aware that some officers in the outgoing government are moving to surreptitiously leave the country at this critical time they are needed to answer to specific questions, though I would not want to mention their names here.
It follows last year’s United States-Africa Leaders Summit, the European Union-African Union (AU) Summit, Tokyo International Conference on African Development, and the 2021 Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC).
All of the previous assumptions are being broken.
No, violence occurs because the politicians do not love and respect us.
“In 1948, countries around the world came together and founded  WHO to promote health, keep the world safe and serve the vulnerable – so everyone, everywhere can attain the highest level of health and well-being,” he said.
The commissioner said in a separate operation on the same day, police operatives attached to Rapid Response Squad (RRS) Unit, Awkuzu, also killed the two suspected kidnappers while attempting to rescue two kidnap victims in the suspects’ hideout in Ifite, Ogbunike, a community in Oyi Local Government Area of Anambra State.
The IPOB spokesperson, Emma Powerful, who disclosed this in a statement on Tuesday, said the civil action was intended to honour those who lost their lives while fighting for Biafra Independence since the struggle began in 1967.
They gave us the highest number of votes.
This database, which is first a State asset that is aggregated at the national level into the NSR is available for utilization by Government establishments, development partners, philanthropies, NGOs and individuals to deliver interventions that tackle poverty, shocks, emergencies and other vulnerabilities effectively.
Mr Olufemi, a multiple award-winning journalist, expressed concerns over the implication of the judgement on press freedom in Nigeria.
"For the avoidance of doubt, the commission denies these allegations and advises the public to disregard them," an official said.
NAN reports that at the commencement of the trial, the prosecutor sought to withdraw the amended charge filed against Mr Njoku and his co-defendant, Chukwuemeka Nwoga.
“The ministry condemns this criminal behaviour, flagrant violation of human rights and international law by targeting worshipers and places of worship.
A member of the G-5, Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State was referred to a disciplinary panel.
Meanwhile, Khadiyat Bello, an official of the campaign, noted that the project was essential.
Speaking in the same vein, the chairman of the occasion, Adegboyega Awomolo, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) said Mr Idigbe was a man of “immense knowledge of the law and integrity.”
The statement reads in part: “We believe that young people have a crucial role to play in building a more inclusive and sustainable future, and that trust in the multilateral system is essential for achieving this goal.
The Minister of Defence, Bashir Magashi, in his remarks after the presentation of the bank drafts to the beneficiaries, urged them to utilise the money judiciously.
“This is one murder too many for us to swallow.
The petition having been withdrawn, it is hereby dismissed,” Mr Tsammani said.
Those initiating these actions have increasingly used their official positions and agents to make false allegations against me.”
“I rejoice with Professor Olupona and I salute him for his invaluable contribution.”
“But their employer has another right under Section 43 of the Trade Dispute Act, to withhold their pay for those five days.
“It is therefore imperative and urgent that INEC does the needful and save Adamawa State from serious crisis by directing the Returning Officer, Prof. Mohammed Mele, to immediately conclude collation, declare the final results and return the rightful winner, Governor Umaru Ahmadu Fintiri as the duly elected Governor of Adamawa State,” Mr Damagun said.
“On a year-on-year basis, electricity supply declined by 3.48 per cent compared to Q4 2021,” it said.
Mr Tony believed him and initiated a conversation with him.
Soldiers arrest Kaduna village chief, other residents in connection with kidnapping
“It’s true because in our house right now they’re more than five people from Wanzamai taking refuge.
Mr Dada’s statement thus means that some of those who arrived in Saudi Arabia were Nigerians.
He expressed displeasure at the state of some of the barracks, saying that it was the reason for consistent talks with policemen to keep the barracks neat.
The Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN), says the effective implementation of the Criminal Justice Act (ACJA) 2015 remains one of the priorities of the federal government in the area of justice delivery.
• Henry Seriake Dickson Bayelsa West
“This would curtail the growth of the money supply and thus curtail inflationary pressure.
They were runners-up on two occasions (1995, 2013) and finished third in 2003.
He said the Attorneys-General of Sokoto, Adamawa, Akwa-Ibom, Bayelsa, Delta and Edo states are plaintiffs in the case.
The World Bank has announced the appointment of Ajay Banga as its next president.
“Colours are retired ceremoniously where the entire parade will give a final compliment to the colours.”
Otherwise, it will be hypocritical, if not fraudulent, to expect any meaningful result from the Nigerian Police in its constitutional duty of protecting the lives and properties of Nigerians.
A strategy will also need to be developed to manage the current stock of FG’s debt at the CBN,” it said.
“We have at no time run out of critical medication or consumables and facilities required in the management of the disease,” the commissioner said.
So, the first thing I really need to work on is, let’s begin to x-ray candidates when they come to work on the basis of what they can do, by what they have done.
In a statement by the board, Mr Wabote emphasised that once the finances of the commission are transparently and prudently managed, it will attract local and international partnerships.
Why South-east can’t get Senate Presidency – ACF chieftain
IPI Nigeria made the call on the president-elect, Bola Tinubu, in a statement commemorating the 2023 World Press Freedom Day.
The initiative, a multi-phase programme financed by the World Bank, is implemented by the governments of Benin, Burkina Faso, Côte d’Ivoire, Guinea, Niger and Togo, and the ECOWAS Commission.
Mrs Olujimi chairs the Senate Committee on Aviation.
According to the organisers, the primary focus of the summit is on feed value chain development, the National Animal Feed policy document, National Strategic Feed Reserve and National Alternative Feed Ingredient Development.
The suspects are Risku Suleiman, 34, and Haruna Umar, 20, who both hail from Kupa village in Garatu, along Bida Road.
Apart from Nigeria, the disease is also said to be endemic in other parts of West Africa including Sierra Leone, Liberia and Guinea.
It was a beautiful Saturday in Chika, a suburb community in Nigeria’s capital city, Abuja, as women and young girls trooped out to participate in the skills acquisition programme organised by Good Deeds Day, a non-governmental organisation.
You play along with everyone?
The lawyer told the court that though they were yet to be served, they had filed a motion to counter part of Binani’s prayers.
A strike is a strike.
“The voting has been done and the court has taken over and until the outcome of the court process is known, we cannot take a stand on the 2023 election,” Mr Okeke-Ogene stated.
He alleged that Mr Trump falsified business records with intent to defraud and an intent to conceal another crime.
The permanent secretary also noted that on the basis of the strategic relationships between Nigeria and China, “we can look at more favourable types of trade and also favourable treatment in terms of areas of legitimate trade concerns”.
“As at today, there is no case in respect of these charges in the court against our client and after seven years of prosecution.
The petition, marked: FHC/ABJ/PET/38/2022, alleges that the late Mr Akindeko facilitated the incorporation of Solel Boneh in Nigeria after he left office, and in which he held 30 percent equity and served as Chairman for about 20 years until his death in 1987.
He told the people that he was not meant to dampen their spirit and urged them to protect government assets in their areas.
“The case is already before the Federal High Court,” Mr Echeng added, without giving details.
Mr Oriola, a professor of Criminology and Sociology, in his research proposal notes that he aims to fill the knowledge gap about people of colour working in Canada’s justice system.
“Our thoughts and prayers are with our citizens there, and the whole country,” Mrs Dabiri-Erewa said.
That has suffered all kinds of delays and it would not be finished in the life of this administration.
With Shari’a law being practised in 12 northern states in Nigeria, the region is blighted by a legion of extrajudicial killings in form of mob action against persons accused of blasphemy.
Nigeria’s annual inflation rate rose to 22.04 per cent in March from 21.91 per cent in the previous month, the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) said in its latest inflation report.
That amount was then about 44 roads that had been awarded and the balance of those roads that had to go through procurement between then and now are the 11 that have now been approved by the council, ” Mr Fashola said.
The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) says over 40,000 people die annually from road traffic crashes in Nigeria.
The World Health Organisation (WHO) estimates a projected shortfall of 10 million health workers by 2030, mostly in low- and lower-middle-income countries.
President Muhammadu Buhari has condoled with Ralph Akinfeleye over the passing of his wife, Carol Anike Akinfeleye.
Mr Soludo said, under his watch, any worker who retires must get his or her retirement benefits.
The leadership of the party is yet to announce their decision on the zoning of the 10th National Assembly leadership.
I clearly remember that in the heady days of the keen contest for the presidential ticket of our Party early 1999, he joined other well-meaning Nigerians from the South-Eastern part of Nigeria to set aside extraneous considerations and ensured that South East unanimously adopted me for the Presidency.
Mr Yari said some senators-elect had endorsed him for the position, and he is not ready to disappoint them.
She said the inauguration of the media team is a welcome development “at this time as it ensures an effective coordination of the media activities as covered in the plan and ultimately helps in the reduction of the morbidity and mortality associated with malnutrition.”
PREMIUM TIMES had earlier reported that Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State announced that the inner caucus of the APC resolved to zone the Senate President to the South-south in favour of Mr Akpabio.
Some members of the National Assembly also graced the event.
In a statement on Tuesday in Port Harcourt, the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in Rivers, Johnson Sinikiem, said about 50 applications were received for inspection of election materials, Channels television reported.
Mr Akintimehin also told the court that the accused also maliciously damaged the victim’s Toyota Camry car with number plate KRD 627 GY, by setting it ablaze.
She also said there were occasions when he put his fingers inside her vagina and rubbed the top part of it.
The application filed by their team of lawyers led by Chris Uche, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) is premised on the grounds that the matter before the court is a dispute over the outcome of the Presidential Election held on 25 February, and therefore a matter of national concern and public interest.
It is so absurd that many Nigerians rush to Benin Republic and Ghana to study in universities which have less global ranking as many of Nigeria’s universities.
However, some opposition candidates with their parties had filed their petitions within 21 days of INEC announcing the results of the results on 1 March, to challenge the outcome.
“During its 170th Meeting, Jigawa State Judicial Service Commission resolved for Compulsory Retirement of One Upper Shari’a Court Alkali (Judge) for serious official misconduct.
The Civil Society Coalition Against Impunity, Tuesday, demanded the release of Nnamdi Emeh, a member of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) arrested for allegedly committing various offences in Anambra State.
Insiders allege mismanagement of funds.
– whether he was arraigned and in which court,” the letter read.
“I have come here today in solidarity with the leader of the House because I believe in leadership.
Both men are of the same party, APC.
Also, several aspirants have openly challenged the party and called for a review.
“This is in national interest.
According to Mr Mohammed, the presidential candidate of the APC, Bola Tinubu, won the presidential election fair and square, clinching the majority of the votes cast.
The prosecution, led by the Director of Public Prosecution, Babajide Martins, had asked the court for a trial date as well as for the defendant to be remanded in a correctional facility.
Humanitarian support was also given to the victims of the recent Turkey Syria earthquake with the supply of 10,000 blankets on behalf of the AFLPM.
But the Federal Executive Council, seven days ago, approved the sum of N129.8 billion for the cleanup among other projects for the Niger Delta Ministry, Punch newspaper reported.
Fans have continued to express sadness over the death of veteran Nollywood actor Obinna Nwafor, popularly known as Saint Obi, who reportedly passed on after a prolonged illness.
According to him, some of these achievements are the NIS National Border Management Strategy 2019-2023
Aljazeera reported the now kingmaker as telling German news site Der Spiegel in an interview, he would only lend his support to the opposition Nation’s Alliance if the “HDP is excluded from the political system”, in reference to its successor party, Yesil Sol.
“When we were constrained on funds to procure equipment, he directed the Ministry of Finance to source funds for us even if it is a loan.
“NEC noted the resilience, and doggedness of our presidential candidate and its resolve to legitimately reclaim its mandate in court.
“For the newly elected governors, I also congratulate you and advise you to follow in the footsteps of your predecessors.
The police officers captured on a video brutalising a commercial motorcyclist in the Abule Egba area of Lagos have been identified and “detained.”
One of the parents told Amnesty International: “Our pain is endless because 14 of the girls came back with 24 children.
Amotekun arrests man for allegedly torturing his two children to death
On whether all Nigerians will be evacuated before the 72-hour window, he said: “We have no problem about the 72-hour window.
This makes her lie about having cancer.
“The number of civilian deaths since the beginning of the clashes has climbed to 822 with 3,215 injuries."
“We consider these acts both insensitive and callous to the welfare of Abia people and the socio-economic development of our state.
She spoke Wednesday during a farewell visit to President Muhammadu Buhari at the State House, Abuja, after a four-and-a-half years tour of duty.
But Mr Magaji said such a comment from the NNPP was a disservice to the nation and an attempt by the NNPP to dominate the region in the absence of strong APC personalities from the region.
It also triggered moves in Africa to withdraw.
Mr Abure asked President Muhammadu Buhari to intervene and stop the APC from further suffocating other political parties.
He gave assurance that President Muhammadu Buhari was fully committed to peaceful transition of government following successful elections.
“The only way to guarantee peace, unity and stability of our nation is to uphold the Will of the people as expressed at the Polling Units in the February 25, 2023 Presidential election and the PDP is confident in the ability of the Judiciary to discharge its Constitutional duties in this regard independently,” he said.
”Following persistent strategic and fruitful engagements between the Deputy President of the Senate, Sen. Ovie Omo-Agege and the Minister of Education, Malam Adamu Adamu and a subsequent direct request to His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari, the federal government has now approved the establishment of the Federal University of Medical and Health Science, Kwale.
National President of the Trade Union Congress(TUC), Festus Osifo, commended workers for their hard work to move the country, especially Rivers State, forward.
Coming with one of the hottest hits from 2023, Davido gave the stage to Spyro to perform ‘Who is your guy’.
Although, the declaration is being challenged in court by five parties, the president-elect, who is currently in Europe, will be inaugurated on 29 May when Mr Buhari’s second four-year term will end.
Since the Chibok school girls were abducted by Boko Haram, a plethora of schools have been targeted, with girls being abducted, raped, killed or forced into “marriages”.
Famous movie names like Tom Jones, Bear Grylls and Oti Mabuse are among the stars appearing in a series of pre-recorded sketches and segments revealing little-known facts about the king.
“ Later in the day, thunderstorms are expected over parts of Oyo, Ondo, Edo, Imo, Abia, Anambra, Ebonyi, Bayelsa, Delta, Rivers, Awka Ibom and Cross River state, “ it said.
“Inflation’s return to target is unlikely before 2025 in most cases.
Fuel scarcity and naira shortages further worsened the situation, increasing food prices,” the report said.
A day after the supplementary governorship election that was held on 15 April, Mr Ari, who was not the official empowered by law to declare results, declared Binani as the winner of the elections.
The examination body also enjoined candidates to locate their centres before the day of their examination so as not to arrive late at the examination centre.
“The IGP has given directive that the commissioner of police on election security in Adamawa State, CP Barde should pull out of Adamawa State and the Commissioner of Police in charge of Gombe State, CP Etim Equa to proceed to Adamawa immediately, to go and supervise election and provide necessary information and ensure that the process is a success,” Mr Adejobi said.
At a trying period in our nation’s political history, the National Assembly requires experienced and level-headed leaders at the helm of its affairs,” Mr Lado said.
PREMIUM TIMES spoke with Ms Iwang, Tuesday morning.
I am therefore not afraid of the lies and propaganda against my person.
She expressed confidence that the shelter would serve its purpose of providing and developing supportive services to meet their needs.
“Unfortunately we are not producing Jet A fuel in Nigeria.
The main entrance to the Rivers State headquarters of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) was on Tuesday turned into a makeshift shrine as the protest in front of the INEC office by members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) entered a second day, on Tuesday.
“No true Northern group will want to endorse Akpabio for a sensitive position like that of Senate President because he is not friendly with the North.
She added that she feels nothing towards Mr Nwamini and wishes him the best.
The amount is part of a sum considered to be “concessional financing”, the document showed.
About 13 years after Inter won the Champions League under Jose Mourinho, the Nerazzurri are set to take a shot at the title again after they overcame city rivals AC Milan over two legs in the semi-final.
Mr Benjamin said out of the 947,000 candidates who had taken the test since Tuesday, only 64,000 have so far experienced hitches.
Garba Shehu is the Senior Special Assistant to the President (Media & Publicity)
The petitions are pasted on the wall of the Rosaline Omotosho Courthouse, Ikeja, the venue of the tribunal sitting.
The sustainability move is targeting 10-gigawatt hours of electricity for both plants.
Candidates who arrived late at some of the centres visited by our reporters even by one minute after accreditations were barred from sitting the examination.
Speaking on the roles of the media, PREMIUM TIMES Managing Editor, Idris Akinbajo, lamented that there is no proper synergy among government agencies to ensure that people don’t suffer the way they did during the last flooding in many Nigerian communities.
The former Judge of the International Court of Justice died on Sunday midnight following age-related ailments, his family said.
“Central to this long-term planning are efforts to combat climate change,” he said.
Aisha Muhammed-Oyebode says the book was issued to mark the ninth year of the abduction of the school girls in Borno State in 2014
The forestry directorate says 20 tonnes of pangolin scales were seized at the port city of Pointe-Noire in 2018 and nine tonnes in 2020.
The affected judge, Safiyanu Dabi, was found wanting by the commission for receiving the bribe.
Diplomats have been trying for days to secure a resilient ceasefire for the evacuation of foreign citizens.
But we are giving the patient the best care.
He listed others as the expansion of energy access by providing 1,200 solar street lights in rural communities and six mini-grids for high-capacity productive farming under the Solar Naija Programme.
The Vice President also presented a Legacy Document of NEC in the last eight years at Thursday’s meeting.
She said because the steel components of the bridge had been removed and stolen by the vandals, it caved in.
And also to ensure that the policies of the government of the day see the light of the day.
The suspects comprised 206 males and 12 females.
The upper chamber also called on the federal government to urgently reverse the current trend of increasing airlines blocked funds in Nigeria.
The Lagos State Government, represented by the Special Assistant to the Governor on Housing, Oritoke Benson, said some police barracks in Lagos have been “crying” for attention for too long, stressing that the state government decided to approach the Force Headquarters for collaboration in rehabilitating the barracks and facilities.
Mr Traore said in a statement that a group of officers who helped Mr Damiba seize power in January 2022, had decided that the leader was no longer able to secure the country, which has been battling a mounting Islamic insurgency.
Wide-spread violence has compelled INEC to cancel Saturday’s Ikono/Ini Federal Constituency rerun election in Akwa Ibom.
The Director, Defence Media Operations, Musa Danmadami, said this while addressing journalists at the bi-weekly briefing on military operations across the country on Thursday in Abuja.
“He, therefore, urges all citizens and residents of the State, particularly her notable sons and daughters, to give the government of Senator Ademola Adeleke all the support it needs to ensure that programmes, policies, plans and aspirations fashioned to make individuals and businesses flourish succeed.”
The report, however, noted that the expansion, if carried out with caution, could still benefit Nigeria, “as it is seeking to increase domestic gas consumption as part of development targets and as a transition fuel.”
Mr Fashola said the reason that would be left was that the Oyo State Government is constructing drainage across the road, adding that the drainage was necessary to help address the issue of excessive flooding and climate change in the state.
Mr Martins said that the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party held its 22nd meeting and made certain resolutions after extensive deliberations.
The chairman of the university’s chapter of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), Kayode Arogundade, told PREMIUM TIMES on Tuesday that lecturers were forced to return home when they could not gain access to the campus due to the protest.
Atiku’s corruption claim during presidential election unknown to law – Tinubu
“Chinese mining contractors, who local communities have accused of abuses and paying pitiful wages, often smuggle minerals out of the country illegally and are sometimes arrested.
He said, with the passing of Peter Pan, Nigeria has lost one of its finest journalists who lent their voices for the betterment of the country.
“Africa, and Nigeria in particular, are suffering disproportionately, it may seem like the human race is losing the battle and even, losing hope, but that is not an option,” Freeman advised.
Mr Umahi said the president-elect, Bola Tinubu, invited him and pleaded with him to drop his ambition.
Before his election to the House of Representatives, he had served as the deputy speaker of Plateau State House of Assembly.
The couple live in Iragbiji and were returning home from a church vigil in Osogbo when they ran into the ambush of the kidnappers.
“We would like to state emphatically that we are not aware of any such apology, and have not issued any statement whatsoever in that regard,” Mr Onifade said in a statement on Thursday.
Outgoing governor of Katsina State, Aminu Masari, assured Akpabio and Jibrin of his support for their quest
Mr Adoke noted that he could relate to his ordeal as he was also a victim of the same circumstances.
According to the plaintiffs: “The NBC Act and Broadcasting Code cannot and should not be used in a manner that is inconsistent and incompatible with plurality of voices, diversity of voices, non-discrimination, just demands of a democratic society, and the public interest.”
Mr Abubakar said the four INEC ad hoc staff were present while political parties presented three agents each, adding that the security personnel attached to the polling unit had not shown up.
A final year student of the Department of Civil Engineering at Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile-Ife, Osun State, Okoli Chizoputam, has been killed by angry students over alleged theft.
The position of Senate President represents the third position in the hierarchy of our current democratic dispensation.
“I am just 33 years old.
The police spokesperson in the state, Mohammed Shehu, didn’t respond to an SMS sent to him on the incident.
The State Security Service (SSS), in a statement last week, said some key players were plotting an interim government for the country, describing it as an aberration and mischievous.
President Buhari said the flaunting of ethnic and religious cards in elections was “rubbish” as the presiding justices at the Supreme Court that squashed his cases were Muslims, from the North, Zaria in Kaduna State, Niger and Jigawa.
The police spokesperson further stated that but for the quick intervention of the police, the parents of the driver too would have been killed.
Obi majored in Theatre Arts at the University of Jos and ventured into acting in 1996 via a Peugeot television commercial.
The states are Imo, Anambra, Ebonyi and Abia.
Let them show me the road they built.
Addressing the protesters, Mr Fasoranti assured them that he would look into their demands.
INEC declared the REC’s announcement as null and void, and suspended the collation of results.
Mr Ortom explained that conducting the census would amount to “injustice and deprivation of millions of Nigerians” who have been displaced from their ancestral homes by terrorists.
Mr Marwa urged them and their compatriots across the country to remain focused and continue the current drug supply reduction and drug demand reduction efforts simultaneously.
The gunmen reportedly stormed the man’s country home.
NAN recalls that Mr Gye-Wado who was deputy governor between 1999 and 2003 in the administration of Abdullahi Adamu, was kidnapped at his residence in Wamba Local Government Area.
Experts discuss roles of farmers, media in achieving food security
The birds are named after a pilot, Enim Akwa and his wife, Enwongo, for their support of the BPC’s conservation efforts in Akwa Ibom.
The policeman used the butt of his rifle to assault the man before shooting him twice.
But we are only trying to register our displeasure that the government should meet our needs,” Mr Raji said.
Mr Kanu’s family, through their legal representatives, Bindmans LLP, consequently applied for leave to challenge the court ruling.
After the audio was released by People’s Gazette, fact-checkers at the FIJ investigated the audio and concluded that it was original and not doctored.
• Isah Jibrin – Kogi East
Sterling Bank’s price-to-earnings (PE) at market close at the last session was 2.7x, while the earnings per share (EPS) is N0.7.
US President Joe Biden announces re-election bid
He explained that Mr Buhari specifically rejected some bills that would strengthen the National Assembly as an institution, noting that the legislative arm must stand against the president in the interest of the institution.
Nigeria’s health minister, Osagie Ehanire, had earlier attributed the high maternal, infant and under-five mortality in the country to lack of access to quality healthcare services.
“The regulation of broadcasting must aspire to promote and expand the scope of the right to freedom of expression, not restrict it.”
“Once you have hit that 5 per cent mark and they’ve announced that you are now a substantial shareholder, there is no further obligation on you to announce to either the NGX, SEC or CAC that you have bought more shares.
“But that right of lien is not absolute.
“Furthermore, across the bases and units, the commanders and commanding officers have embarked on series of projects towards improving the welfare and security of the personnel.
10th House: Despite murder trial, House leader, Doguwa joins speakership race
He added that he withdrew from the speakership race in 2019 based on the plea by Mr Tinubu, who was then a leader of the party.
The police spokesperson in Ogun State, Abimbola Oyeyemi, confirmed the development.
A week after the commencement of registration on 20th March, JAMB halted the process, saying the decision was to rejig the A’ Level result verification process.
Senate confirms appointment of six RMAFC federal commissioners
The don also called for the strengthening of the legal framework to ensure that courts apply the provisions of Section 19 sub-section 2 of the EFCC Act, 2004 for the accelerated trial of corruption cases as well as the non-interference on corruption cases by the government.
“Some of the videos you see on social media are a bit exaggerated and most of the issues have been well taken care of already”, the permanent secretary said.
Therefore, no candidate was disqualified from registration as a result of non-submission of NIN at the beginning of the exercise, or, even later.”
Wema Bank appears on this week’s selection for proposing a dividend per share of N0.30 for 2022, compared to the N0.08 paid for the preceding year.
The judge had, on 18 April, refused to hear an ex-parte motion filed by Binani.
You don’t get anything out of war but from the negotiating table.
“These projects are often implemented in partnership with local authorities and contractors.
By cancelling her declaration, Dahiru contended that INEC usurped the powers of the election petition tribunal which is the only court vested with powers on a declaration from the conduct of an election.
Since then, Mpox has been reported in people in several other central and western African countries: Cameroon, Central African Republic, Côte d’Ivoire, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Gabon, Liberia, Nigeria, Republic of the Congo, and Sierra Leone.
This is contained in a statement on Monday in Benin, by Iguobaro Osaigbovo, the spokesperson to Ewuare II.
“Our future is a mirror of the opportunities afforded to the girl child today.
“I bought her a phone recently and I pay the children’s school fees,” he said.
Several thousands of people require humanitarian assistance in Nigeria’s northeast following the campaign of violence by Boko Haram and the counterterrorism measures to stop them.
In an interview with Channels Television, Mr Soyinka said he told Mr Obi that if he lost the election, it would be his followers who lost it for him.
Immediately my driver stopped to pick up the remains, the hawker fell on the floor claiming he had a broken leg, sensing the damage and expenses involved’.
Conceding that there was room for improvements, the minister said the introduction of a new technology Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) by INEC underpinned the credibility of the elections.
Saturday’s event was on a smaller scale than that staged for Queen Elizabeth in 1953 but still sought to be spectacular, featuring an array of historical regalia from golden orbs and bejewelled swords to a sceptre holding the world’s largest colourless cut diamond.
“We speak and act against attacks and assaults on Police officers, it’s evil and criminal.”
Then, just hours later, both recanted these decisions.
“Consequently, the case is being transferred to the State Criminal Investigation Department for further investigation with a view to establishing further facts that will facilitates his prosecution,” Mr Akinremi said.
Although Mr Obi did not make reference to his arrest and subsequent detention by UK immigration officials at Heathrow Airport a fortnight ago, this is the first time he would speak out since the incident occurred.
He said the adjustment in the date of the UTME was to accommodate some other major and critical national assignments.
The sources said, “Investigations have led to the tracing and identification of properties in Nigeria and overseas, as well as the recovery of millions of naira and USD.”
Atiku said that Tinubu deliberately chose not to answer points of substance in the petition and opted for extraneous facts, contradictory, evasive, speculative and vague assertions.
To ease movement through the WURI programme, an inaugural meeting of the supervisory committee was held in Lagos with representatives of the ECOWAS, the World Bank and other stakeholders in attendance.
But to go and say you committed a crime… the conversation around the election.
“We have the presidential election on the basis of Muslim/Muslim ticket, I am not sure we want to stretch it by having the number three position as a Muslim as well,” Akin Alabi, a federal lawmaker from Oyo State recently stated during an interview on Channels TV.
In the clip, seen by PREMIUM TIMES, some gunmen, operating in a Prado SUV, double-crossed the victim, who was driving an ash-coloured Lexus SUV and zoomed off with the victim and his vehicle.
“With this in mind, we had to develop a strategy that would allow us to identify and implement bold, pragmatic reforms.
Re-run: Zamfara PDP accuses APC, police of planning to arrest its members
Asked whether he typically advised clients to delete documents, Burke said: “I’ve done it once in my career and it was this time.”
“Pass mark in the sense that it was transparent enough and very prompt.
Also, the CEO of the Serum Institute, Adar Poonawalla said: “Developing a vaccine to greatly impact this huge disease burden has been extraordinarily difficult.”
However, the government lodged an appeal at the Supreme Court to overturn the appellate court’s decision freeing Mr Kanu.
“We looked at various police barracks in Lagos State, we wondered if officers and men actually come out of those buildings.
The lecture, which is open to the public, is designed to be an interactive and engaging experience for all attendees and would afford all participants the opportunity to network with other professionals in the field of architecture and leadership.
The president-elect further noted that his victory cannot be invalidated on account of “corrupt practices.”
Aviation ministry sues for peace as striking workers block access roads to Lagos airport
The deadline for registration had earlier been fixed for Saturday, 13 May.
The NLC and the TUC had said that the federal government refused their request to use the venue for the Workers Day celebration.
Last year, a board member of Union Bank who does not want his name in print, told PREMIUM TIMES that the corporate name “Union Bank” will be retained after the merger.
The President of Dangote Group and United Nations Malaria Ambassador for Nigeria, Aliko Dangote, made this known Tuesday in his World Malaria Day (WMD) statement titled “With Urgent Investment, Innovation and Implementation, Zero Malaria Spread is Possible”.
Safety has been the Buhari focus in Aviation, since 2015.
Other components of the roadmap are establishment of an aviation leasing company, development of aerotropolis (Airport cities), establishment of an aerospace university and improvement in aviation safety and security through upgrades and modernisation of aviation infrastructure and facilities.
Likewise, Mr Obi won all five states in the South-east and was the only one to successfully cross the 25 per cent threshold in all five.
He was Contributing Editor of Radio Deutsche Welle in Cologne, Germany, from 1966 to 1976, and was Africa Editor of National Zeitung, in Basel, Switzerland, becoming Editorial Director of New African magazine in London in 1978.
But Mr Okoye said the REC’s decision to announce Mrs Binani as the winner was a usurpation of powers.
“Suffice it to say that a critical tenet of attaining the SDGs is to make meaningful progress in nutrition,” he said.
Mr Tinubu won 25 per cent of the votes cast in 29 states but secured only about 18.99 per cent in the FCT.
God and my people protected it for me.”
Head of Press and Public Relations of PSC, Ikechukwu Ani, said in a statement on Wednesday in Abuja that 20 other officers were severely reprimanded.
With the conclusion of the supplementary elections into the National Assembly across the country on Saturday, the 10th Senate has now been fully composed.
Speaking to the crowd who followed him home, the President-elect said: “I’m happy to be back.
The cliche romantic comedy film, which leaves viewers laughing, was almost marred by its unnecessary sex plots.
A former governor of Enugu State, Chimaroke Nnamani, has berated proponents of Interim National Government (ING), describing it as treasonable and an affront on the sensibility of Nigerians.
Chinese miners bribe Nigerian militants to access mineral reserves in Nigeria – Report
These fellows include the Assistant Inspector General of Police, Zone 14, Ahmed Abdulrahman, and the current Vice-Chancellor of Nasarawa State University, Suleiman Mohammed, a professor.
The APC equally faulted the competence of the petition by the APP, arguing that the grounds on which it was founded is not sustainable.
They relied so much on the three banks – First Bank, Access Bank, and United Bank for Africa (UBA) – for their financial transactions.
Although Mr Obi was not the only presidential candidate from the South-east, the LP candidate enjoyed swelling support across the country ahead of the election, mainly in South-east and South-south regions.
“This means that Lagosians can say goodbye to high fuel costs and hello to cost-efficient transportation.
According to the Discrimination Against Persons with Disabilities (Prohibition) Act, 2018, it is mandatory for public institutions to have at least five percent of employees who are PWDs.
I’ve been elected twice to the Senate, Atiku didn’t influence any primaries but those who want to call a dog a bad name in order to hang it will bring a lot of insinuations and all that.”
A News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) correspondent who visited the site of the collapsed portion of the bridge reports that a team of engineers from Buildwell Plants and Equipment Industries Ltd used crash barriers to barricade the damaged portion of the deck on a pile bridge.
It presents a missed opportunity for the Nigerian police to prove its commitment to protecting such victims.
“These are actually two of the important highlights during the 75 years of existence of the Organisation.
The HNO, however, noted that the Continuous Assessment Score (CASS) score is a major component in the computation of grades for candidates in the WASSCE (SC) examination.
“Upon being served with the originating process in the said suit, our client – through us – promptly responded by filing a statement of defence as well as a preliminary objection thereto,” he stated.
Meanwhile, the ruling party, APC, aligning with the President-elect, has adopted Messrs Abbas and Kalu as the candidates for speaker and deputy speaker.
The offender was born in Lagos, Nigeria, and moved to the United Kingdom in 1990.
He said since the prosecution had not closed their case and the defendants called upon to enter their defence, it would be unlawful to discharge and acquit the defendants of the charge.
PREMIUM TIMES gathered the abduction came few days after soldiers attached to the Operations Hadarin Daji sacked several terrorists’ camps in Kaura Namoda, Zurmi and Birnin Magaji axis.
— Senator Shehu Sani (@ShehuSani) April 7, 2023
Cahill himself admitted that he advised one of Taiga’s daughters on what to say in a witness statement.
It is a story of sin and redemption.
RK was initially convicted of one count of rape of a child under 13, 0n 26 November 2021 in Crown Court at Croydon.
Mr Yeaten remains at large.
We would like to take this opportunity to thank you once again for your support, dedication, and hard work”, the statement reads in part.
Saturday’s supplementary election being conducted by INEC, recorded high voter turnout as the election began early in the affected areas in Sokoto State.
When asked for confirmation, one of the press officers of the Ooni of Ife, Adetoyese Yusuf, said he was not aware of the meeting.
“We need to change our orientation about how we manage our natural resources, exploit or dispose our wastes,” he said.
The presidential aide said that contracts were also approved for the Ogoni remediation in Rivers.
“I’m not sure the report is true but give me till evening to confirm this,” the official said.
If the question is asked how did President Obasanjo raise Federal Government’s allocation from 48.5% to a whopping 56%.
The offence, according to the prosecution, is punishable under section 1(2)(h) of the Terrorism Prevention Amendment Act 2013.
NAFDAC has registered several local manufacturers and the Indomie noodles have been certified safe for consumption.
It was when I went on a course in Sapele that I made the plan to steal a vehicle.
He remained in this stress position for some two hours,” the court said.
I am open to consultation, but until then everyone should bear his father’s name,” he said.
Mr Muoka noted that the CSIRT highlights ten steps for enabling 2FA on WhatsApp.
Mr Olabamiji said the people of Osun should look forward to enjoying the dividends of democracy as Mr Adeleke settles down in office fully.
Mr Kyari added that NNPC is playing a leading role in the realization of the Federal Government’s National Gas Expansion Programme, which seeks to deepen natural gas utilization as an alternative transportation fuel, and an important feedstock for the development of gas-based industries.
Suleiman Barnabas and Chris Onyemenam of Baze University, Abuja, were elected General-Secretary and legal adviser respectively.
Mrs Cobham said as early as 4.30 a.m., they were expected to be at their duty posts to sweep their portion, always a long stretch before day-break.
"For me, let me even assume it happened.
He said: “As you will recall, the administration of Buhari has established a record of being the first and only administration in the history of Nigeria that has indeed tolerated, accommodated and enforced the decision of the Human Rights Commission.
Repairing Apple gadgets cost a dime in Nigeria – Users
Nigerians would no longer have their leaders chosen for them”.
The losers have since taken to the legal and legitimate options of challenging the outcome.
“The commission will appeal against the judgement when found to be in conflict with the previous judgement of the court, which empowers the commission to regulate broadcasting in Nigeria,” the Director-General of the agency, Balarabe Ilelah, said in a statement on Friday.
“We find that third party responsibility for the cigarettes is very unlikely, but possible,” the judge said.
An indigene of Oyo, Ayo Kamorudeen, also said the need for the announcement of the next Alaafin could not be overemphasised.
A former President of Guinea, Alpha Condé, has spoken on the raging controversy over the alleged citizenship of Nigeria’s President-elect, Bola Tinubu, of his country.
May Day: Zamfara civil servants bemoan non-payment of salaries for three months
The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate, Atiku Abubakar, won the presidential election in Katsina State, where Mr Buhari, a member of the APC, hails from.
The lawmakers are proposing five years mandatory service by Nigerian-trained medical doctors before they are given full practising licence.
The police spokesperson said the Commissioner of Police in Delta State, Muhammed Ali, ordered the arrest and detention of the officer, on receipt of the “sad news” about the killing of the victim.
I know that a lot of the people from the South-east are equally angling for the position of the Senate President, Speaker that is being contested across the country.
Mr Gwarzo added that the initial hitches had been addressed, saying that all Nigerians willing to return home had been evacuated by buses to Port Sudan, from where they would be air-lifted.
“You must shift from the tradition of reacting when these policies have been made but insist that you take charge and ensure full transparency and disclosure.
The police spokesperson said the case was later transferred to the State Criminal Investigation Department (SCID) for investigation after one of the victim’s sons, Igboke Onyema, reported the incident.
Most important though, was having a firm and coordinated Pan-African strategy.
“It is a building under construction and they have eaten into the building next to them because it is not their building that fell it is the neighbour’s building that fell on them.”
” So, for me, it’s an extra mile; apart from the regular policing of the borders by officers, we have also gone into Public Relations and then enlightenment.
Total Votes Cast – 48, 896
He said the president “is a man of outstanding integrity’’ and he demonstrated the attribute in the past elections.
Mr Mohammed assured that the country would soon get to the stage of holding general elections without recording any casualties.
“It did so despite its young age and relatively small area; Israel has accumulated vast experience in planting forests in semi-arid regions and preserving them in dry and extreme conditions.
King Charles III ascended the throne on 8th September 2022, following the death of his mother, Queen Elizabeth II.
He added, “Now, with those local and international successes in mind, the need has now arisen for Nigeria to indeed consolidate on the gains.
“There is nothing serious about that, even recently the South West arm of the PDP came to pay a visit.
We urge the Inspector General of Police and the Commissioner of Police, Rivers State Command, to leave no stone unturned as they work towards the safe release of our dear learned friend.
An official says climate change had also affected acquaculture practices in the country.
RULE OF LAW AND HUMAN RIGHTS COMMITTEE
“I also pray for those who are continuing, the Governors who are continuing and those who are coming in, that you will experience the best years yet of our nation and that our nation under you, and your states under you, will prosper and that the decisions we elect will be one that will be celebrated for years to come.”
Speaking specifically on the Labour Party presidential candidate, Mr Carson said, “on the part of Mr Peter Obi, he did not have the ground game and a national organisation.
Curiously, the boy who had claimed that he and Mr Asadu were members of the gang that allegedly kill the vigilante operatives is still alive and was not charged to court, according to Mr Victor.
Three producers exempted from supply cuts -Libya, Iran and Venezuela – also recorded varying output.
Nigeria has hired a total of 40 buses for the evacuation.
Then we will send the judgement to key religious organisations of different faiths – the Catholic Church, the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) and Islamic organisations.
According to him, any decision reached at the NWC meeting is of no legal effect.
The group has been at the forefront of the fight against corruption and impunity in Nigeria and has contributed significantly to the development of the country.
Sudan used to have one of the best educational institutions in the world, just like Nigeria of the immediate post-colony which was a Mecca for anyone seeking quality education.
President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday inaugurated a 14-member National Council for Digital Innovation and Entrepreneurship (NCDIE).
He must answer all the questions the new regime may have for him particularly when he still has some months left of his tenure,” the Zamfara governor wrote in his Monday statement.
Nigerian Muslims, under the leadership of the President-General of the Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA), Sa’ad Abubakar, have congratulated Nigerian Christians on the Easter celebration.
The National Assembly has directed its Clerk to transmit the Constitution Alteration Bill 20 which approves a uniform retirement age for judicial officers in Nigeria to the president for assent.
“The APC failed to secure the key states in the North-west like Kaduna, Kano and Katsina, Kebbi and Sokoto in the presidential elections which usually bring the deciding votes winning only Zamfara and Jigawa of the seven states in the zone.
He requested a declaration that the commission was currently underfunded and thus unprepared to conduct a credible, effective and constitutional census.
“I use this opportunity to call on my co-contestants — my male contestants to consider the love and the care Nigerian voters have shown to them, and as a matter of honour, step down to support this woman.
Atiku responded to CCB via letter by his lawyer, Mike Ozekhome, noting that the case is subjudice being the subject matter of a pending case before the Federal High Court already.
Mr Yilwatda said this in a statement signed by Generation Next Campaign Council spokesperson, Shittu Bamayi, and made available to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Sunday in Jos.
Similarly, Bill 43 prescribes the timeframe for the presentation of treaties to the National Assembly.
The NASSP Scale Up for which $800 million is earmarked is a buildup on the successes of the initial (NASSP) project.
The Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NiMet) has predicted sunshine and cloudiness from Monday to Wednesday across the country.
Mr Onifade also reiterated that Mr Obi has been under all kinds of attack, since the presidential election in which he put up an outstanding showing coming third out of 18 contestants as announced by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC).
Present at the airport to receive the evacuees was the Sudan Ambassador to Nigeria, Mohamed Yousif.
The judge warned she would not tolerate further delay in the case the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, instituted against SSS.
The Commander said the 5,610kg seized drugs included Cannabis Sativa, Heroin, Cocaine, Methamphetamine, Tramadol and other psychotropic substances.
According to the report, the most substantial spike occurred in November, with a 6.6 per cent increase.
“Agriculture has been used as an important instrument in eradicating hunger, poverty and all forms of malnutrition.
I am Olusegun Obasanjo, a soldier commissioned into the British Army of the West African Frontier Force in 1958, and rose to the rank of a full General in the Nigerian Army.
He explained that the Act, which became law after its approval by the Federal Executive Council on 15 December 2021, and the Presidential assent on 19 October 2022, provides incentives and support for start-ups, such as tax breaks, access to funding, ease of doing business, intellectual property protection, and participation in public procurement.
Edozie Njoku has asked the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to recognise him as national chairman of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), citing a Supreme Court judgement.
The corporation earned 40 per cent more in other income and considerably cut impairment loss on financial assets.
The airline was expected to gulp $8.8 million in preliminary cost and $300 million as take-off cost.
Another individual that would have been a front-runner is the majority leader of the House, Alhassan Doguwa, from Kano.
Mr Ikpeazu’s administration has responded to the accusation.
It said their conviction “sends a chilling message to the Nigerian press and highlights the urgent need for authorities to reform the country’s laws and ensure journalism is not criminalised.”
There may be more mud slinging from those who are against the emergence of the New Nigeria but, I would never be deterred by the obstacles along the way to victory.
Mr Okoye added that on 30 June 2021, the Jigawa High Court in suit No: JDU/022/2021 entered judgement in favour of the said Rabiu Garba Aliyu.
Other members of the committee are Oluwole Oke (PDP) Gaza Gbefwi (SDP), Beni Lar (PDP), Ali Isa (PDP), Kabiru Rurum (NNPP ), Donatus Kuzalio (LP), Yusuf Majigiri (PDP) and Nnabuife Clara (YPP).
“This is a trying moment for Nigeria and the world.
Mr Ekwo also directed Mr Oguche to serve on all the respondents in the suit the processes filed and adjourned the matter until May 31 for the bank to show cause.
Read the full statement by Mr Adesina on Saratu Umar below.
“I urge them not to cause him any harm or allow him to be hurt in any way.
Mr Wabote emphasised that once the finances of the commission are transparently and prudently managed, there will be local and international partnerships.
These reports will help set the agenda for improved governance of foreign direct investments into the country.
At the last count, 512 people have been martyred to please the god of ego in Sudan.
The two Reynolds firms which allegedly unlawfully received the shares and assets of Solel Boneh are sued as the 1st and 2nd respondents.
The forum will also review progress in the areas of clean water and sanitation (SDG 6), affordable and clean energy (SDG 7), industry, innovation, and infrastructure (SDG 9), sustainable cities and communities (SDG 11), and partnerships for the goals (SDG17).
The Labour Party candidate also accused INEC and Mr Tinubu of manipulating the poll in favour of the latter.
Professor Yakubu had an opportunity to high rising and he wasted it spectacularly because it’s very easy to become the very hero of not just Nigeria but Africa.
“Given this, we scholarship students of Jigawa State are seeking for the government to collect our transcript to transfer us to various universities in different countries so we can continue enjoying the sound education that we have started in peace.
This newspaper reported that the Supreme Court had on 24 March based on a request by Mr Njoku, amended its judgment delivered by Mary Peter Odili, now a retired justice of the apex court, on 9 May 2022.
He added: “Not just that every person that is holding power including the military, security people are tested before they are given a very serious responsibility.
It predicted a sunny atmosphere with few patches of clouds over the northern region with prospects of thunderstorms over parts of Taraba and Kaduna State later in the day.
“The NCC has been inundated with enquiries by the media on allegations of telephone “tracking” and “leakage” made against the commission by some individuals and groups in the social and alternative Media.
“While estimated completion is not until 2026, it is the first additional train since 2007, and feasibility studies for Train 8 are underway.
In the suit, SERAP is arguing that: “By allegedly engaging in electoral violence and other electoral offences in so blatant a fashion, suspected perpetrators and their sponsors have clearly acted in violation of constitutional provisions, international standards and the Electoral Act.”
The amount includes gross statutory revenue, value-added tax, exchange gain, and electronic money transfer levies.
He also promised to open up the activities of the House to ensure transparency and accountability.
The party’s presidential candidate in the 2023 general election gave the advice at a programme called “Welcome/reception of PDP governors-elect and send forth of the past PDP Governors’ Forum (PDP-GF) chairmen,” on Thursday in Abuja.
A graduate of engineering from the University of Nigeria, Nsukka, Mr Iwuanyanwu, 80, is the founder of Iwuanyanwu Nationale Football Club, now Heartland Football Club, which has won several local and international championships.
He explained that with an infant mortality rate of 5.7 percent, there is one doctor per 10 thousand Nigerians, as compared to the WHO standard of 2.5 doctors per 1k thousand Nigerians.
He said, “At the heart of Easter, is the triumph of light over darkness.
She complains to her best friend, Donna (Bolaji Ogunmola), who was happily married to Azeem (Emmanuel Ikubese).
Mr Gowon’s appeal comes amidst criticisms trailing some controversial judgements of the Supreme Court concerning the Senate President Ahmad Lawan and Godswill Akpabio, senator-elect and former Minister of Niger Delta Affairs.
The minister explained that using data for planning and decision-making by those with the requisite skills, capacity, and rigour can lead to predictable, orderly and measurable results but can be dangerous in the hands of the unskilled.
Russian President Vladimir Putin had announced that he would no longer recognise rulings by the court.
Buhari is ‘father of the nation’, Akpabio speaks on visit to president
They will not be asked to move until their money is paid for new accommodation,” he said.
“These successes are anchored on the collaboration among all stakeholders.
Besides, Josephine Ijekhuemen, also a legal practitioner, said the importance of the court in the Nigerian judiciary cannot be over-emphasised.
Meanwhile, the journalists have faulted the court decision and vowed to appeal against the judgement to have it overturned.
Mr Namadi acknowledged the high rate of poverty in the state.
Nigeria’s Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola.
The four suspects were all sentenced to death by hanging without an option of a fine.
A young man, 22, was on Sunday evening set ablaze by an angry mob for allegedly stealing an Android mobile phone at Atimbo area of Calabar Municipality Local Government Area (LGA) of Cross River.
Messrs Tinubu, Shettima and Betara are all members of the APC, Nigeria’s ruling party which also won the most seats in the next parliament to be inaugurated in June.
However, results from some polling units were either blurred or improperly snapped and therefore illegible.
Abubakar Makki (APC, Jigawa) and Tunji Raheem (APC, Kwara) also pulled out of the race alongside Mr Doguwa.
The coalition claimed to have 283 members-elect from the eight parties represented in the House.
These informants are known to provide the terrorists with information on “suitable” targets to be abducted, help the terrorists get the phone contacts of families of abductees, inform the terrorists about the movement of security agents among other duties.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Ayetoro community on Monday witnessed another ocean incursion which destroyed several houses, schools, churches, markets and businesses, while many residents have fled the area.
Why would you pay 1.2bn Naira for one truck?
The House also warned aggrieved parties to desist from heating the polity and believe in the rule of law while awaiting the outcome of litigation before the court of law.
The government also approved N9 billion for the procurement, installation, and inauguration of voice and data recorders in nine airports across the country.
The EFCC had called seven prosecution witnesses in the trial that started over five years ago.
For instance, it has options for verified check marks and a feature like a retweet count.
Thank you and God bless,” the letter reads in part.
Although less than a third of the eligible population voted in Kano, the state had the highest number of votes with 1.74 million total votes cast.
It is only just that the least position at the moment that can assuage the South-east is given the chance to be the president of the 10th Senate”.
Crude oil theft has become one of the prevalent crimes around Nigeria’s coastal areas.
Because God allowed him, no man can stop him.
He expressed his delight for the “deliberate push to bridge the gap and promote the inclusivity agenda” adding that “there is nothing called development if it is not inclusive.”
There was a statement about technical glitches.
In Abuja, parents and candidates who spoke to our reporters said there was no delay in accrediting the candidates, except that candidates spent more time waiting to start in the halls.
In yet another letter, the president transmitted a Bill for establishing the Nigeria Police Force College Training School and Institution for consideration and approval by the Senate.
Court grants Seun Kuti ‘suspended’ bail
I have the integrity, honesty and experience to lead the senate,” Mr Kalu said.
“Our major challenge with Childhood TB control in the state is that parents are scared and do not allow doctors to take their children’s stool for test.
Mr Chetachi, a lawyer, said the former governor “passed on peacefully” on Tuesday morning at the National Hospital Abuja after a brief illness.
The Corps Marshal of FRSC, Dauda Biu, said this on Monday in Abuja during activities marking the 7th United Nations Global Road Safety Week.
“It is even more absurd that the Adamawa State REC did not only usurp the powers of the Returning Officer but attempted to declare a winner without figures in reckless violation of the provisions of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended), the Electoral Act, 2022, INEC Guidelines as well as the sensibility of the people of Adamawa State.
It also noted that 80 per cent of the projects had no specific location.
The 162 students who are mainly on scholarship in Sudan were among thousands of Nigerians evacuated from Sudan following violent civil clashes in the country.
The general feeling is that women at the National Assembly and state assemblies are under-represented across the country hence there is need for some gender sensitivity.
The vaccine- R21/Matrix-M, is developed by the University of Oxford and manufactured by the Serum Institute of India.
Two million Nigerians impacted by poverty alleviation programme in 2022 – FG
He said that the continued marginalisation of women and youth in the previous and incumbent governments must stop forthwith, saying no nation made progress without the active participation of women and youth.
On ground seven, the government said the Court of Appeal was wrong “when it failed to consider that it was the illegality of” Mr Kanu’s “act of jumping bail and his refusal to make himself available for trial that necessitated his return to Nigeria”.
“Countries on the WHO Health Workforce Support and Safeguards list are graded red in the code.
She said to increase survival rates, women and babies must have quality and affordable healthcare before, during, and after childbirth as well as access to family planning services.
A correspondent of the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) who monitored the availability of the new notes reports that residents are lamenting over the scarcity of the new notes.
However, after contracts for the construction of 1,579 houses were awarded for the development of the properties, the petitioners alleged Mr Kwankwaso “manipulated” the process and terminated the term of the agreement.
Mr Oke said the verdict in the case which was delivered on 18 December 2008 has never been appealed against either by INEC or the Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF).
This she said accelerated the uptake of the COVID-19 vaccine in the three states of focus.
Tinubu’s spokesman did not respond to email and text messages seeking comment.
On February 25, Nigerians went to the polls to elect their preferred presidential candidates in the seventh general election since the end of military rule in 1999.
Osilamah Braimah, the director, Abuja Environmental Protection Board (AEPB), has said that the board derived no joy in shutting down Garki International Market on Friday.
While Akwa United defeated their opponent, Kwara United 3-1, Dakkada could only force Enugu Rangers to a 1-1 draw.
President-elect, Bola Tinubu, has promised that his administration will provide a living wage as he described the existing national minimum wage as “not enough”.
The Court of Appeal acceded to his request by dismissing the remaining seven counts and ordering his release from custody in its judgement handed down on 13 October 2022.
“They also confessed to have collected a N1 million before releasing the couple,’’ he said.
NAN reports that Mr Mbah reiterated his commitment to the socio-economic transformation of the state, and enjoined the people to see themselves as one people, “who must collectively rise to the challenge of building the state into a preferred place for doing business, tourism and living.”
Presidency reacts to Supreme Court judgement on Osun election
The University in the letter also undertook to provide accommodation and feeding to Professor Ozekhome while on campus; and accord him honorarium and travel expenses to and from the University.
“As I continue to consult on my aspiration to serve you as your president of the senate, please accept the assurances of my highest esteem.”
Dr. Shubham Chaudhuri, also a former professor of economics at Columbia University, New York, will identify lessons from countries with similar size and challenges as Nigeria; and Dr. Usman, will draw from her academic research, her work as the pioneer director of the Carnegie Africa Program, and her stint working on different countries at the World Bank.
“The defendant is a well-known religious leader and he has shown by his action that he will not jump bail.
“The commission has not refused to produce any document,” Mr Mahmoud said.
Tweetgen is an online fake Tweet generator.
Throughout her career, she has done what the best investigative journalists do: acted as a watchdog on the powerful and giving a voice to the powerless.
“Senator Akpabio has earned the respect and trust of the leadership of the party and the president-elect and all other stakeholders.
He resigned his ministerial position last month to contest the party’s primary election.
The MCGL team lead, Nneka Dikeocha said the project started in March 2022, stating that a maintenance process known as standard operation procedure would be developed to manage the place.
Kwam 1, who has over 383,000 followers on Instagram, featured 9ice on his 10-track ‘Timeless’ album due for release this April.
Cervical cancer could become the first cancer to be eliminated.”
“Do not be gaslighted into thinking it was your fault.
President-elect Bola Tinubu returned to the country on Monday evening after about a month trip to Paris, France.
In the suit against Messrs Omokore and Aluko, alongside their companies, Atlantic Energy Drilling Concepts Nigeria Limited and Atlantic Energy Brass Development Limited, the Nigerian government asked the court to grant it seven orders to prevent the accused from disposing of the assets.
Mr Betara, who is also an aspirant for the position of Speaker in the 10th Assembly, enjoined all Muslim faithful to sustain the good deeds exhibited during the holy month and continue to practice the teachings of the prophet.
COVID-19 diagnostics, therapeutics, vaccines and personal protective equipment – PPE), with health workforce issues and lack of funding representing the most common barriers.
The governor while inspecting the project in May 2021 said it would create 1, 300 direct and over 3, 000 indirect jobs when completed.
Mr Fashola, while reacting to the controversies surrounding the president-elect, said the country does not need a saint, but someone to deliver good governance.
“In June 1998, a declaration was optimistically made by the ILO to establish a social minimum at the global level, to respond to the realities of globalisation.
Africa has four slots at the tournament and with the U17 AFCON serving as the qualification, the teams that reach the semi-finals will represent the continent at the global event.
Bishop remanded for alleged rape of two church members
You can watch highlights from the show here.
“A comprehensive and detailed information concerning the Quality Test Assurance report on the devices and technology to be deployed by the commission towards the coming 2023 General Census until Judgment is delivered in this case within 7 days of the delivery of judgment.
The court subsequently fixed 11 May for hearing on the pending motion and the main appeal.
While alleging the chairman was absent in all the party’s campaign outings, Mr Hassan – Adamu said ward executive of the party held a meeting to look into the actions of the chairman during the election.
The Ondo State Government has demolished 40 houses it said the owners built on public land in Akure, the state capital.
Monday’s approval has put the number of private universities in Nigeria to 148.
The APC won 57, PDP 28 and LP won 6.
The spokesperson commended the road user for reporting the matter.
In the letter, Mr Ndubueze said the Senate at this time needs a focused, people-centric, calm and supportive leadership and that he possesses those qualities.
The petition, signed by HEDA’s Chairman, Olanrewaju Suraju, referenced a viral report published in national dailies on 15 August 2022, which disclosed that the federal government discovered and sacked 23 workers with fake letters of employment.
He cited the example of the Order of Precedence Act in 2000 and the NDDC Act in 2001.
However, ruling on an application Mr Kanu later filed to challenge the entire 15 charges, the trial Federal High Court in Abuja dismissed eight of the counts it adjudged not to be inappropriate.
“So, I want to implore that forbearance continues because the deadline date we have for completion now is April 30.
In his statement, Mr Matawalle also accused the EFCC chairman, Abdulrasheed Bawa, of corruption, saying he has evidence against him.
Mr Ari announced the APC candidate winner of the election while the collation of the results of the supplementary election conducted on Saturday was still in progress.
However, the former senators, under the aegis of APC Non-Serving Senators, said their position is to ensure peace, national unity and party cohesion.
Mr Sanwo-Olu gave the assurance at a May Day celebration in commemoration of the 2023 Workers Day on Monday.
He expresses UNICEF’s support and commitment to the CRISP programme and announced the UN agency’s intention to allocate additional resources to expand its scope.
The Presidential Election Petition Court (PEPC) in Abuja, on Monday, asked lawyers representing all petitioners to avoid unnecessary technicalities and address the substance of their cases.
He said one of the sureties must be the owner of a build-up property in Lagos State and the property must be enough to cover the bail sum.
The president while inaugurating the 746 housing unit estate, said it would help check multi-dimensional poverty in the country.
The BON official noted that the sale of the spectrum by NCC will lead to the sudden disappearance of the majority of the television stations in Nigeria.
He said the importance of the travel was for the delegation “to discuss the way forward for the peace process and the release for the UN peacekeepers.”
Aisha Buhari laments gap in cardiac care
These one million beneficiaries were pulled from the Rapid Response Register – a subset of the National Social Register.
He advised that replacing Irris Smart Tech Ltd with NSPM would amount to changing the goalpost during a game, stating that Nigeria could lose investors and the global trust it currently enjoys.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Senate had on 5 April, adjourned plenary to 25 April for Easter and Sallah holidays.
On sighting this reporter walked into the gallery, Mrs Etim, aided by her walking stick, struggled to stand up.
But Mr Osuntokun would not relinquish his seat, insisting that Mr Apapa had no right to take the seat.
“Once you have hit the 5 per cent threshold for substantial shareholding, there is no requirement for you to make further disclosure on additional acquisition,” an official of the Nigerian Exchange told PREMIUM TIMES on condition of anonymity.”
While coronating Mr Okafor as the Ezeaganama III and authentic monarch of the community, amidst the tension, the head of Awkuzu Kingmakers (Okpala Awkuzu), Nweke Ozoemena Mgbike explained that he was crowning Mr Okafor because the kingship stool runs in the royal family of Aganama and not rotational as some people had thought.
“While progress has been made, it is evident that more needs to be done to develop clear routes that bring women and girls from conflict to safety.
Apart from killing the victims, the gunmen abducted three others, including two other police officers and their driver, who arrived in the area to carry out a rescue operation during the attack.
The Governor has been subjected to many coordinated media attacks, probes, freezing of state accounts and other punitive measures to frustrate and cripple his administration.
“My appointment as the chairman of the commission came at a critical time in our national life, when the Commission and the Nigeria Police Force have engaged in a seemingly intractable disputations.
Most of the men are not even aware of the contents of these bills.
He added that speculation as to how the cigarettes got into the bags is not relevant to the question, and HMRC did not meet the balance of probabilities burden of showing that Mr Fagbewesa owned the cigarettes.
According to her, the convict failed to bring to court, his brother, whom he claimed to have been with on the day of the incident.
“The demand is in recognition of the fact that the police is the lead agency in internal security.
The Global Firepower placed Nigeria below Egypt, Algeria, and South Africa, but ranked it above Ethiopia, Angola, Morocco, DR Congo, Tunisia, and Sudan.
However, Mr Oke, weighing in on the issue, said the Nigerian constitution allows dual citizenship.
“The State Police of this Command is by this development committed to the implementation of this system of vigorous prosecution and punishment of all electoral offenders arrested and investigated during the last elections.
Mr Umahi, a senator-elect and one of the contenders for the position, had also stepped down and endorsed Mr Akpabio.
Tonye Cole, the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) was reportedly attacked by the protesters while trying to honour an appointment with INEC officials on Monday.
He later, to his embarrassment, discovered that I was a Law teacher and adviser to the then Attorney General of the Federation and of course, that I am also Ijebu.
Ms Adichie had in an open letter to the US president said “Many believe that the INEC chair has been “compromised”.
According to NEMA, 13 buses conveyed the first batch of the evacuees from Khartoum in Sudan to Egypt from where they will be airlifted to Nigeria.
The government complained of being denied a fair hearing by the Court of Appeal.
In an interview with journalists, Anthony Idigbe, a son of the deceased jurist and Senior Party of the law firm, recalled his father’s judicial philosophy of “substantial justice” rather than technicalities.
However, down the line, as Jesus is brought to trial, the same Peter, weighed down by fear, decides to follow Jesus from a distance (Mt.
Protesters under the umbrella of Yoruba Afenifere Youth Organisation of Nigeria (YAYON) marched to the Akure residence of the aged leader of the group, Reuben Fasoranti.
Watching over his cowrie house, black Gold and a DRUM BEAT that connects men of all classes and
JAMB organises UTME for visually-impaired candidates
The House of Representatives ad hoc committee investigating alleged missing crude oil has summoned the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, over $200m paid to “consultants”.
He urged them to increase their economic presence in Ile-Ife and exploit the various opportunities for investment.
The nine-year-old son cried very loudly; one of his sisters witnessed the assault, while the other, who was upstairs at the time, heard his cries.
In the ruling, the Supreme Court said “It is hereby ordered that the Appeal No.
Since winning the MTV Europe Music Award for Best African Act in 2018, making her the first woman to succeed in the category, the 43-year-old singer continues to break boundaries in the largely male-dominated Nigerian music industry.
Police in Ebonyi State have urged residents in the state to discountenance the sit-at-home order by the outlawed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) scheduled from May 8 through May 11.
This crisis, she said, led INEC to cancel the initial declaration which it had no power to do as only the election petition tribunal is vested with such powers.
The president had successfully performed Umrah rituals, amid tight security, upon his arrival at the Grand Mosque in Makkah from Madinah on Thursday morning.
He said he told Mr Buhari about his aspiration and that the president was “happy to hear that”.
Sudan condemns terrorist attack on worshipers by rebel RSF
Mr Nami dedicated the award to his alma maters (from primary to tertiary levels), his former colleagues at the Presidential Committee on Audit of Stolen Recovered Stolen Assets, members of the Tax Advisory Committee of the FIRS, all taxpayers, FIRS board members, management and staff of the FIRS, and his family members.
While summoning the duo again, Mr Gbillah stated that a whistleblower informed the Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU) that Mr Malami approved the payment of the $200 to two private companies—Biz Plus and GSCL for “consultancy services.”
Without the slightest shred of evidence, Chimamanda avers that INEC’s inability to upload results of the presidential elections online as promised on February 25 was not due to technical hitches but rather deliberate human mischief and manipulation to rig the election.
Raw material exports grew 154.2% in the same period; solid minerals grew 565% and exports of manufactured goods 26.8%.
Tajudeen Abass’s exceptional contribution to law-making alone is enough to secure him the office of the Speaker of the House of Representatives,” he said.
“Many states across Nigeria now have various crops they have economic advantage upon and they are producing it abundantly.
President Muhammadu Buhari has appointed a retiring Assistant Inspector General of Police (AIG), Garba Umar, as senior security adviser on International Police Cooperation and Counter-terrorism in the office of the Minister of Police Affairs.
You would need a licence to be certified to practice.
The third category are the candidates that were rescheduled to take the examination on 27th April but could not receive the notification.
PREMIUM TIMES gathered from one of the parents and the chairman of the parents association that Mr Gide released the four students on Friday around 8:37 p.m. after collecting N80 million naira.
Though unimpressive, our democracy is no longer in transition and only the 9th Assembly, under your leadership, may immediately save us from the possibility of further use of a temporary provision in the Constitution that has served more than its purpose.
To conclude the Forum, Mo held another one-to-one conversation this time with William Ruto, President of Kenya, around the ongoing climate change debate – including the value of creating an efficient carbon market – as well as discussing reforms to the multilateral architecture and processes, such as removing the currently punitive assessment of African risk.
He further said that one double-barrelled local gun and “assorted criminal charms” were recovered from the arrested suspect.
”The aspirations of the Commonwealth family, which include positioning it to be a strong and respected voice in the world and improving the lives of all its citizens, are being vigorously pursued,” he said.
The spokesperson for the dissolved All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential campaign council, Festus Keyamo, has attacked the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the 25 February presidential election, Atiku Abubakar, over his criticism of the United States Secretary of State, Anthony Blinken, for making a phone call to the President-elect, Bola Tinubu.
In every presidential election before now, the region that gave the highest votes is almost always the North-West.
The witness, who pleaded anonymity, said that the man committed the offence on Saturday and disappeared into thin air only to reappear on Sunday.
Mr Ilomuanya, a traditional ruler, informed the governor that the decision to adopt Mr Iwuanyanwu was taken at the Imo State Council of Elders at its first quarterly meeting on 13 April in Owerri, the state capital.
He will do well to focus his attention and energy on dealing with the many allegations of criminal conduct of forgery and financial impropriety levelled against him by his own party."
He said they passed through Lofa County, where they “clear the way” to come to Monrovia.
The Enterprise Republic, occupying a purpose-built house, was formally launched on Saturday, bringing together government officials, community leaders, and young entrepreneurs.
His handlers later said he would be in France, the UK and Saudi Arabia for the lesser hajj.
Messers Akpabio and Izunaso have previously spent one term of four years in the senate.
Fidelity Bank traded 24.3 million shares valued at N137.7 million in 104 deals.
He said the woman was spotted by operatives of the corps running out of the Kelebe forest along the Iragbiji-Osogbo road at about 9 p.m. on Tuesday.
For the States House of Assembly positions, elections will be held for 57 constituencies in 17 states.
“Our hearing of two other witnesses will be done through video recordings,” said Kimmo Vanne, the Court’s presiding judge.
In addition, there were power cuts in several areas and problems with telephone connections.
It however warns that the total amount of such advances outstanding “shall not at any time exceed five (5) percent of the previous year’s actual revenue of the Federal Government.”
The president-elect said without national unity, security, economic development and good governance, Nigeria would not become a better place to live or play her proper role in the comity of African nations.
Mr Edafe added that a manhunt was ongoing for the fleeing suspect.
In the contested publication published by an online platform, News Digest, the article said Hillcrest Agro-Allied Industries Limited, a firm located at Kilometre 4, Ajase-Ipo along Offa Road, Amberi Village, Kwara State, allowed its staff members to smoke Indian hemp freely.
The Young Progressives Party (YPP) has faulted calls for an Interim National Government to take over from the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration, saying it is illegal.
How did Chimamanda measure the enthusiasm of one party’s campaign crowd relative to the other?
He said degraded lands can be converted into pasture cultivation in an effort to curb climate change.
A parent, Sani Muhammad, told PREMIUM TIMES over the phone that the students were released after payment of 80 million naira.
“We are using this medium to call on the people affected that this area is an industrial area and no residential building will be allowed there.
Godswill Akpabio and Adams Oshiomhole are the two names that come to mind.
The victim and his siblings were clearly otherwise well looked after and provided for.
“However, our work is not done.
He further dispelled the rumour that he was arrested by the Economic and Financial Crime Commission (EFCC).
• Musa Garba Kebbi South
Tony Elumelu, the chair of Transnational Corporation Plc (Transcorp), has acquired fresh 9.7 billion shares in separate deals in recent days, company documents revealed on Thursday.
When they take money from you, tell us.
The decision was taken at the State Executive Council meeting held on Tuesday
In 2021, the game six of the tournament had over 14 million viewers.
We don’t pretend to know each billionaire’s private balance sheet (though some provide it).
They make up the bulk of the doctors in Nigeria’s tertiary hospitals and when the NARD goes on strike, activities are crippled in such hospitals.
Scarcity of new Naira notes hits Abuja
We also have one senatorial Election, two Federal constituency elections and eight State Assembly elections in Kebbi.
Without this, it is just a case of another person in government who has some explaining to do himself over allegations of corruption, high-handedness and abuse of office now asking others to account, by so doing, merely giving Nigerians a comic relief from the present challenging times they are experiencing.
This is purely our efforts.
Read PREMIUM TIMES’ original report on the property here.
PREMIUM TIMES gathered that Mr Sarkin – Fada is the father to the incumbent Zamfara State House of Assembly member representing for Kaura Namoda constituency, Anas Sarkin – Fada.
President Buhari says Bola Ajibola took his brilliance in law practice to the International Court of Justice at The Hague, “where he served meritoriously"
To peek over the edge of that pit for a prolonged spell was to turn giddy, with a risk of falling into the tureen of inhuman pus.
We are now talking about the number three.
The Joint Admissions and Matriculations Board (JAMB) has rescheduled the mock examination for affected candidates for Tuesday, 18 April.
“The CBN should focus on its core mandate of maintaining price stability.
The Force spokesperson, Olumuyiwa Adejobi, did not respond to calls seeking comments from him on the matter.
He said that this was in tune with the policy direction of President Muhammadu Buhari.
“In view of the evidence before the court, I hereby find the defendant guilty of the charge against him, and he is hereby sentenced to seven years jail term,” Mrs Ogala said.
Therefore, the BIA decision to remove her from the US stands.
Bola Tinubu, Nigeria’s president-elect, declared as the winner of the 25 February presidential election, faces at least five petitions challenging his victory at the Presidential Election Petition Court in Abuja.
The CBN will have to restore the credibility of the MPR such that bond yields and lending rates are reflective of the monetary policy rate (MPR), the report said, adding that the removal of the current multiple exchange rate windows being operated by the CBN should be considered.
He noted that there are gaps in nutrition investment in the country, hence the need to work with the media to spread the word on the importance of nutrition.
A Karu Upper Area Court in Abuja on Friday sentenced a man, Sabiu Akilu, to four months in prison for constituting a nuisance.
Mr Ekere, a former managing director of the Niger Delta Development Commission, was the Akwa Ibom APC governorship candidate in 2019.
Thousands more from the register have accessed cash transfers and other assistance programmes from international bodies like the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), and UN Women during the COVID-19 pandemic.
He also urged the court to set aside all the decisions the NNPC Limited’s board had taken since his wrongful removal from office.
The police opened the trial of the APGA chair accused of forging a Supreme Court judgement, after announcing that a court official would be their witness in the case.
The IGP instructed all newly-posted and redeployed officers to strive to ensure that their commands, formations, and departments comply with the police reform mandate.
“Also, on the issue of the nomenclature of the headship of the proposed Nigerian Peace Corps, the title is National Commandant as contained in Part III, Section 11(1) of the Bill as passed and not Commandant General as widely been speculated.
Mr Idris expressed determination to use his mandate judiciously to deliver the dividends of democracy to his constituency and to Nigeria.
Trevor Burke, a lawyer who worked on the arbitration claim against Nigeria, said under cross-examination that in 2019 he asked Cahill to get Grace Taiga to delete from her phone WhatsApp messages between herself and Cahill.
“They then immediately approved the first quarter 2023 results and released them to the public,” Mr Otedola said in a statement seen by PREMIUM TIMES.
“I felt it was important that I put the records straight in the public space.
Responding to the development, the President of the Students’ Union, Anuoluwapo Adeboye, told PREMIUM TIMES Wednesday that “the union is in total disagreement with the management on the development, adding that they “have opened dialogue with the management on the matter.”
Also speaking in a separate interaction with journalists, the senator-elect for Zamfara North, Sahabi Ya’u, said he is unaware of the party’s nomination for the leadership of the 10th Senate.
“They entered the bush with the people they carried walking on foot.”
“In 2021, the NDLEA launched Nigeria’s new National Drug Control Master Plan (NDCMP) 2021-2025, ” he said.
According to him, I will advise them to attend the meeting with the Minister of Health tomorrow.
Authorities did not identify any specific content or activities prompting that allegation.
Subsequently, the local government’s chairperson, Mojisola Olakojo, asked Baba Iyaji, who is the traditional head of the ruling families, Mukaila Afonja, to send the list of the candidates.
The police spokesperson said, during the night, the suspect and the victim left the native doctor’s house to an unknown destination.
The judge granted the request and adjourned the matter until 17 May.
How reliable and accurate then is the information which the writer feeds her readers?
They are the 3rd, the 4th, the 11th and 12th respondents (namely Shikun & Binui Solel Boneh, SBI International Holdings, Arison and Saidoff) at their last known addresses in Israel, Switzerland, and the United States of America.
Mr Kyari and three other co-defendants in the suit bordering on drug offence had filed the application.
Politics in a democratic setting is about lobbying.
“We did also meet with those aspiring for the position of Speaker of the House of Representatives, but because we’ve not briefed our members, I will not go into details of our interface,” he said.
The Inyang Okoro-led five-member panel of the court then adjourned proceedings until 11 May for a hearing.
Ex-Imo governor Ihedioha loses mother
Like other states in Nigeria's South-east, security has deteriorated in Imo State, with frequent attacks against security agencies and government officials.
The First Lady of Nigeria, Aisha Buhari, has lamented the wide gap in cardiac surgery and care in Nigeria, calling for improved investment from the government and the private sector.
“I congratulate Baba Ayo Adebanjo on attaining 95 in good health.
The party chairman said the case had been referred to the APC fact-finding committee to advance reasons they should not be expelled from the party.
“TUC and NLC will do whatever it takes to protect the lives and properties of workers.
“One of the suspects, Nworie Emmanuel, 20, was arrested and taken to the police station.
The police in Ogun State have arrested four officials of Zefa Microfinance Bank, Ifo, Ogun State, for allegedly pushing one Vivian Omo to death.
Herbert Wigwe assumes leadership of the France-Nigeria Business Council as BUA Chairman Abdul Samad Rabiu concludes successful two-term tenure.
The embassy instructed interested persons to converge at Al-Razi University and the International University of Africa, Madani Street on Saturday morning.
In a bid to help the obvious knowledge-gap and inertia exhibited by the EFCC Chair, the probe should be all embracing and cover all officers.
The Semé Command of Nigeria Customs Service said it intercepted 553 parcels of cannabis sativa worth N10 million , with four suspects arrested alongside.
“So, we feel that current affairs is very important that we discuss all our programmes.
He disclosed that FEC approved a new bill known as Nigeria Mining and Mineral Act, 2023, to replace the Nigerian mining law and update the law.
The two journalists insisted in their separate written statements to the police that their report was balanced and fair.
Individuals not identified with a political party were responsible for 18% of the attacks, while regulatory bodies and state actors were responsible for 7% and 11% respectively.
Controversy as police fail to account for whereabouts of man arrested in Anambra
“Three of the original 14 members had decamped to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), thereby reducing the membership of the State Working Committee to 11.
This was a shock to rule of law advocates inside and outside government, who were encouraged by the recent confirmation of their commitment to the international court.
People with haemophilia are at risk for excessive and recurrent bleeding from modest injuries, which have the potential to be life-threatening.
You can assist people genuinely but not extort from them.
The police spokesperson in Yobe Dungus Abdulkareem confirmed the incident to reporters.
“The president approved the sum of N10 billion for the construction of the domestic and international wings of the airport.
The 30BG 001 was also joined by British rapper Tion Wayne who was among the remarkable performances for the night.
The police listed Ms Adebisi, a former secretary to Mary Peter-Odili, a retired Justice of the Supreme Court as the third defendant in the amended charge.
Rich till i die – Kizz Daniel
“The judge should not have been distracted by that factor, at least at the outset; it was not relevant to the question of determining the correct length of a custodial sentence,” the panel wrote.
*Victim Company E: $1,955,000.00
“Few minutes ago, the national headquarters of the Labour Party in Abuja witnessed a massive attack and was broken into by a detachment of the Nigerian Police and thugs believed to be working for the All Progressives Congress, APC,” the statement said.
• Aminu Iya Abass Adamawa Central
We went up to the Supreme Court and won and they had to give way for development.”
The 36 state chairpersons of the Labour Party (LP) and that of the FCT have called on a party member, Lamidi Apapa, and other aggrieved members to sheath their swords and resolve issues internally.
The crisis involves two rival groups: The Sudanese army and a paramilitary group known as the RSF, or Rapid Support Forces.
The university also banned the use of tinted vehicles by staffers and students, and learner symbols and permits must be displayed on the vehicles of “beginner drivers.”
A source in the army revealed that the soldiers combed the bush on Friday after the attack which left the town in panic.
“In the said advertisement, the NCC brought notice to the general public on the availability of frequency slots in the 600MHz spectrum band for sale.
He further itemised sections 842, 843, 844, 845, 846, 847 and 848 of the law which he argued gave the CAC “too much control over registered associations,” thereby infringing on his rights to “freedom of thoughts, conscience and religion” as enshrined in the Nigerian constitution.
Following this decision, the defendants headed for the Supreme Court, seeking to upturn the ruling of the appellate court.
“It’s not yet clear whether the terrorists kidnap 15 other people as being speculated in the town.
According to him, most of the colours in the Nigerian Army have been used in multiple operations in various geopolitical zones of the country as well as foreign countries, hence deserving retirement and the presentation of new ones.
He urged the government to recognise the trend of deglobalisation and leverage on data to rebuild the economy and create jobs.
So, this one also is going to make life very good.
Those of us who take this position have the blood of the victims on our hands and are complicit.
The police spokesperson said the arrest of Mr Chukwuma, an indigene of Mpam in Ahaizu Mbaise Council Area of Imo State, was in response to a directive to the operatives by the Commissioner of Police in the state, Ahmed Barde, to track down the killers of the officers and the couple.
The three Nigerians on the list are the President/Chief Executive of the Dangote Group, Aliko Dangote, BUA Group chairman AbdulSamad Rabiu, and Globacom boss, Mike Adenuga.
“I urge you to assimilate and retain the mental, physical and spiritual training given to you at this institution,’’ Mr Yahaya charged.
Seven tools often used by ‘disinformants’ to create fake narratives
Most unfortunately, in the past few weeks, Mr Peter Obi, the Labour Party presidential candidate in the February 25th, 2023 presidential election has been contacted by associates, elder statesmen, family and friends with concerns for his personal safety.
“This is a religious war,” he added.
“The Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria Limited Joint Venture (SPDC JV) is committed to the development of businesses in the Niger Delta.
For the competition, Team Pathfinider presented a modified pit-latrine system that simultaneously addresses Water, Sanitation and Hygiene and offers users a hygienic and inclusive toilet solution.
He said that such licensing would ease pressure on the government and attract revenue to it.
Mr Obi was leading Mr Tinubu with over 23,000 votes by the time INEC announced the presidential election results in 21 of the 23 local government areas in the state.
It stated that in 2022, the SPDC Joint Venture, Shell Nigeria Exploration and Production Company (SNEPCo) and Shell Nigeria Gas (SNG) awarded contracts worth $1.9 billion to Nigerian-registered companies.
Court convicts two journalists for defaming agro-allied company
A review of air tickets prices across major domestic airline companies such as Air peace, Ibom Air, Max Air, and Azman among others shows that the minimum prices for air tickets rose significantly in recent months.
Mr Maikyau held talks with Ms Peter-Odili, a retired Justice of the Supreme Court, on issues of “the promotion of the rule of law and the justice sector,” the statement said.
Mr Dada made the call during Babcock University’s 41st inaugural lecture titled: “The Forensic Accountant in a Global World of Corruption and Stunted Economic Growth.”
PREMIUM TIMES reported the attack on an American embassy convoy in Anambra State, south-east Nigeria on Tuesday.
The presidential aide was reacting to separate editorials by two national dailies, Daily Trust and ThisDay, blaming the security situation in Benue State on the inactiveness of the federal government.
She is suffering from a health condition called Nephrotic Syndrome, where the kidney does not function properly.
“Right now, I am feeling the connection of origination and I am happy to be back home,” she said.
Section 22 states that: “The press, radio, television and other agencies of the mass media shall at all times be free to uphold the fundamental objectives contained in this Chapter and uphold the responsibility and accountability of the Government to the people”.
Handel’s coronation anthem “Zadok The Priest” was sung as it has been at every coronation since 1727.
“It is important to say that effect cannot be given to this Bill until the same is assented into Law by Mr President.
“There may be more mud-slinging from those who are against the emergence of the New Nigeria but I would never be deterred by the obstacles along the way to victory.
The time was 10:05 a.m.
That is a ground rule of just proceeding.
According to Ms Oniha, a review of Nigeria’s fiscal data shows that not only has the government operated budget deficits, which have been growing, most of the deficits have been funded through local and external borrowing.
Trending Searc²hes: The “trending” queries are the searches with the highest traffic over a specific period.
“He told me that he would injure me.
Further developments concerning the incident will be communicated in due course, ” the police added.
The news comes barely two weeks after a seven-storey building under construction collapsed leaving one dead in the Banana Island area of the state.
The motion for their suspension was moved by Jerry Uzosike (Umuahia South), seconded by Solomon Apulonu (Majority Leader – Obingwa East).
The incorporation of the national oil company was necessitated by the coming into force of the Petroleum Industry Act, 2021, which led to the unbundling of the agency which had operated for decades as a public corporation.
There is absolutely nothing new or fresh about Obi except in the jaundiced eyes of the Chimamandas of this world.
Mr Kanu leads a separatist campaign in Nigeria’s South-east region which he hopes would become an independent Biafra Republic.
Mr Buhari said the project was another testament to his administration’s commitment to lifting people out of poverty.
The presidency stated that beneficiaries were those 60 years and above and those suffering from ill health that might likely lead to death.
Mongabay, in an announcement on Thursday, said this year, it received more than 450 impressive applications from around the globe.
Adamawa Governorship: Police detain REC who illegally declared Binani winner
While the ANC welcomed Amnesty International’s criticism of the ICC’s disproportionate focus on Ukraine, would the ANC necessarily appreciate a more even-handed approach in practice?
The Commissioner of Police in Rivers State, Okon Effiong, earlier on Monday ordered the arrest of the officers, and promised to get them sanctioned for their action.
Kasuwar Daji is one of the “safest” communities in the area.
He assured the leadership of the APC that the forum of former senators will continue to support Messrs Akpabio and Jibrin till they achieve their ambitions.
That portion of his testimony does not corroborate with the testimonies of other defense witnesses, who have made no mention of any special operation, although they’ve also claimed Massaquoi and other RUF leaders did come to Liberia for peace talks.
She commended the state government for providing an enabling environment for the project to thrive.
3) Laws of Jigawa State 2014.
Mr Mimiko related economic growth without development to a philosophy of the cancer cell.
“In particular, where hardcopy of collated results from the immediate lower level does not exist, the collation officer ought to regenerate the results from the polling Units by either relying on IREV or the duplicate copies issued to the parties’ agents.”
“The National Economic Council has been advising especially the questions around subsidy, reports.
Through his excellent performance, he brought honour and dignity to Nigeria.
This is not a new development as incumbent President Muhammadu Buhari also lodged at the same facility months before his inauguration on 29 May 2015, before he moved into his official residence at the Aso Rock Villa, Abuja.
In the face of the all-out Russian invasion more than 13 months ago, Ukraine continued to export electricity to neighbouring ex-Soviet republic, Moldova, and the European Union from June until October.
Ms Haruna added that 11 other states would be joining the seven participating states in June to further give more girls access to education.
Mr Ikenga said the police, in a separate operation at about 4 p.m. on the same day, arrested four suspected vandals in Ogbunike, a community in Oyi Local Government Area of the state.
A statement issued by IPI Nigeria’s Secretary, Ahmed I. Shekarau said Mr. Mojeed appealed to members to pay their membership and annual dues to enable the organisation execute laudable programmes that members would benefit from.
He returned to Nigeria to practise law, specialising in Commercial Law and International Arbitration.
Counsel for the second and third respondent, Nureini Jimoh, SAN, and Abdul Adamu-Fagge, said a rerun election is different from supplementary election and urged the court to strike out the main suit at tribunal and dismiss the appeal with a cost.
This is also a call to lawmakers at all levels of government to compare provisions in bills with provisions of the constitution, especially Chapter 4, which deals with the fundamental rights of citizens before such bills are sent to either the president or governor for assent.
Ahmed Idris Wase, and some other aspirants to the office of Speaker in the 10th House.
Some houses were also torched by gun wielding youths moving across the town.
Mr Gambo said: “I am a beneficiary of the school in question – Federal Government College, Kaduna, which is situated in Malali village.
The Nigerian Army on Thursday conducted a historic trooping and presentation of colours parade, retiring and replacing 53 units’ regimental colours and issued 28 new ones for newly established units.
Both offences are not of the same facts or ingredients.
They resolved that all their affiliates in the state must withdraw their services beginning from Tuesday midnight until the government restores and guarantees the protection of the lives and properties of workers in the state.
To do so, we have partnered with FT Strategies, the subscription growth consulting arm of the Financial Times, to create a reader survey to better understand our readers’ needs, values, preferences, and behaviours.
Nothing happened to the side mirror, the plastic had been broken.
Ms Williams also noted that the corps, in synergy with sister security agencies in the state, had put in place strategies for a hitch-free Eld-el-Fitr 2023 celebration.
For in him is the spirit, the strength of a charging bull
“The smoldering disillusionment felt by many Nigerians is not so much because their candidate did not win as because the election they had dared to trust was, in the end, so unacceptably and unforgivably flawed.”
Senate Presidency: Former senators appeal to aggrieved aspirants to step down for Akpabio
Dismissing speculations about his health, the president-elect said: “All speculation has perished and their purveyors brought to shame.”
The Minister of Finance, Budget, and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed, last Wednesday disclosed that Nigeria has secured a World Bank facility worth $800 million.
A high court in Lokoja, Kogi State, in January 2022, also sentenced a man, Muritala Dare to death by hanging for stabbing his colleague to death with a broken bottle.
What we have seen over the last five years is a pointer to the possibilities for a new Nigeria,” he stated.
The United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime has also collaborated with governments across Central Africa to develop Rapid Reference Guides for investigators and prosecutors of wildlife and forest crime.
“In the area of troops welfare, this administration has facilitated the approval of the Manual for Financial Administration which has greatly enhanced the pay and allowances of troops.
I’m not lobbying to become Chief of staff- El-Rufai
Emeka Ugwuoke, a retired colonel, has accused authorities of the Nigerian Army in Enugu State of invading his residence and forcefully ejecting his wife and children from his apartment in the state.
As we celebrate, let us also remember our obligation, as God’s children, to love our neighbour, regardless of tongue, faith and tribe.
The FRSC boss who lamented over the crash said it would have been avoided if the motorists had adhered strictly to traffic rules and regulations.
“The 1st petitioner (Mr Obi) purportedly resigned his membership of Peoples Democratic Party on 24 May 2022 to purportedly join the 2nd petitioner (LP) on 27th May 2022.”
The report is the WHO’s fourth round of the global pulse survey on continuity of essential health services during the COVID-19 pandemic: from November 2022 to January 2023”.
“As the fuel scarcity failed to ease, the prices of items like rice and chicken increased in November as preparations for the end-of-year festivities began, which are often accompanied by increased purchases of food items by corporations and households,” the report said.
Just on Tuesday, Afrobeats sibger Seun Kuti was arraigned before a court in Lagos a day after surrendering himself to the police for slapping an officer.
“You know the district head’s official residence is not far from the main road, so the bandits went straight to the residence while shooting in the air.
Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State has pledged to create more jobs and conducive environment for businesses to strive in the state.
Google processes more than 40 000 search queries every second.
The EU-AU summit was marked with a major investment plan for Africa as part of Europe’s Global Gateway project.
Mr AbdulRazaq gave the assurance on the occasion of the 2023 Workers’ Day Celebration on Monday at the state Metropolitan Square, Ilorin.
The PDP spokesperson said the party will continue to recognise workers as the real drivers of the country and also for voting for it during the recent polls.
“We are facing unprecedented heatwaves, fires, and flooding worldwide, while millions of households struggle with the cost of living crisis,” said Clémence Dubois, Global Campaigner at 350.org.
The judgement results from a suit filed in 2021 by the Media Rights Agenda, a not-for-profit organisation concerned with promoting press freedom and access to information.
The Theatre Commander, North-East Joint Operation, Hadin Kai, Ibrahim Ali, a major general, disclosed this while briefing journalists at the Maimalari Cantonment in Maiduguri.
A total of 17 of them were newly elected while 11 incumbent governors ran for their second and final term of four years.
While our core values of accuracy, integrity, and independence will always be at the heart of our work, understanding what readers want and expect from us will allow us to better tailor our news to their needs,” said Mr Akinbajo.
He said the examination body is already achieving the desired result, saying it is embarrassing that candidates screened for admission are later found to have used fake results by the universities.
“I must stress that a guilty man who is charged for a case like this would not have gone for a supplementary election and won the way I won the election.
The bill seeks to give legal backing to the establishment of the Peace Corps as a government parastatal and allow its members to be absorbed into the proposed organisation at commencement.
The amendment, sponsored by Ganiyu Johnson (APC, Lagos), is proposing that Nigerian-trained medical doctors must serve in the country for five years before they are given a full practising licence.
“Secondly, we want the Lekki Deep Sea Port and the Dangote Jetty to be able to perform maximally.
Mr Onoja enjoined his supporters to allow love, patience and perseverance to lead at Friday’s primary election and at the 11 November governorship election in the state.
It depends on how he picked up the phone.
Mr Keyamo, in another tweet on Saturday, said he posted the video as bait to his critics, whom he described as “folks of low moral standards”.
In the House, Edwin Ume-Ezeoke of the NPP became the speaker while Ibrahim Idris of NPN was his deputy.
Six influential senators from different geopolitical zones have formally indicated an interest in the seat of the next senate president.
He said the dismissed officers were three Assistant Superintendents of Police, while those affected by reduction in rank include an Assistant Commissioner, a Chief Superintendent, two Superintendents and one Assistant Superintendent.
But as a responsible organisation, we will do everything possible, especially for candidates who have purchased the PIN to register.”
“These substantial increases indicate the impact of inflation and other economic factors on the cost of food items in these regions,” it said.
Mr Jalingo said, however, that government was a continuous process, hoping that the incoming administration would build on the successes recorded for the eventual conduct of the census.
The Court of Appeal in Abuja, had similarly, in November 2022 affirmed the conviction and 14 years of jail time for Mr Maina’s son, Faisal Maina, over money laundering charges involving diversion of pension funds.
This condition is almost exclusively found in males.
Mr Olumoh urged the House to look at the issue holistically to put an end to what could cause issues later.
” It should be noted that the board does not have the liberty of shifting forward its examination as other public examinations are billed to commence their exercises in the early part of May 2023.
They said withdrawal was the last option if other solutions to the dilemma of hosting Mr Putin and complying with its ICC obligations failed.
“It is in the light of the above, that we respectfully request that our client’s appointment with you be rescheduled to a date convenient to your officers, preferably after the Easter and Ramadan holidays,” Mr Uche, the lawyer said in his reply to the EFCC on behalf of Mr Akpabio.
“It is a big encouragement just watching them at the highest level and knowing that they started here at the U17 Cup of Nations.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the minister is in Washington to engage with international media organisations and Think tanks on the just concluded 2023 polls.
History will record you in the growth and development of the legislature, our democracy and our dear country.
The Police say the redeployment is in line with the IGP’s mandate and strategies to strengthen the operational structures of commands, departments and formations.
Mr Adekoye said that the arrests followed intense surveillance and undercover operation ordered by the Director General of NAPTIP, Fatima Waziri-Azi.
Ms Adichie, the internationally acclaimed Nigerian novelist and essayist, wrote a piece titled “Nigeria’s hollow democracy” published in the latest edition of The Atlantic magazine on April 6.
That added to higher interest costs at N4 billion which had the most squeeze on its bottom line for the period.
He said that it is “shocking” that the officer was transferred without facing any consequences.
The victim told journalists that she had been sexually abused by her father since 2020 after her mother left home.
Doesn’t it?”
The elders added that they had directed Ohanaeze Ndigbo to set up an emergency telephone line where Igbos in Lagos who are victimised because of their Igbo origin will make a report.
Other senior advocates also agreed with Mr Olanipekun.
It also directed Mr Gazali to file the appellant’s brief within six days from Thursday.
He was also at the Reuters News Agency; The Politico, an international political newspaper, and Zenger News, a channel that publishes its contents on Forbes.
“So likewise in other states, I will use this opportunity to call on all party members to cooperate, to let the party continue,” Mr Sambo said.
“We will work with the rest of Nigerians to ensure that we are able to develop the human capital which will also be needed for the growth of industries.
The experts spoke during the second edition of the FAAN National Aviation Conference held in Abuja.
Burkinabé military officer, Ibrahim Traoré, who has been the interim leader of Burkina Faso since 30 September 2022, ousted interim president Paul-Henri Sandaogo Damiba who took over the country’s leadership, also in a coup just eight months earlier.
“The vision is ambitious and innovative.
“He is indeed a man of great integrity; he did not choose to serve his own interest, not about him.
“The commission denies the allegations in their entirety.
A northern route through Chad and Sudan is used to traffic pangolins and other endangered animals to markets in Arab countries.
The Supreme Court’s decision lays to rest the dispute over the outcome of the governorship election, and extinguishes Mr Oyetola’s hopes of coming back to office after his momentary victory at the Osun State Governorship Election Petition Tribunal in January.
[PHOTO CREDIT: Official webpage of Court of Appeal]Mr Ugo hails from Kolokuma/Qpokuma Local Government Area in Bayelsa State, South-south Nigeria.
The demolished structures were mainly residential buildings behind the popular Automat, along the Akure/Owo expressway.
The minister explained that they drew up the roadmap and got the transaction advisors in 2016.
Zelensky congratulates Tinubu, invites president-elect to war-ravaged Ukraine
“Politics aside, time has come to let you know that the interest of the masses must be most paramount without any restriction or discrimination whether based on political persuasion, creed or religion.
Google on Tuesday revealed the top searches that captured the interest of Nigerians in the first three months of 2023.
In a statement on Thursday by its Executive Director, Okechukwu Nwanguma, RULAAC commended the police commissioner for his “prompt action in ordering the detention and prosecution” of the police inspector.
On a year-on-year basis, it added that customer numbers in Q3 2022 declined by 1.19 per cent from Q3 2021 (11.07 million).
He came third in a closely fought election in which Bola Tinubu of the All Progressives Congress (APC) came first and Atiku Abubakar of the main opposition, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) came second.
Mr Ararume said in his suit that the inauguration of the board on 7 January with another person named as the non-executive chairman of the company came to him as a surprise.
“I wrote several applications to the state government and in 2013, the then governor, Sullivan Chime, approved my application.
Kola Oyefeso, who delivered Mr Adebutu’s message, noted that the foundation was established when the donor turned 70 in 2005.
“He said the syndicate is responsible for the death of the village head, and that N1.5 million ransom was collected for the release of his daughter recently, while the same amount was also collected for the release of Alh.
He received the Nigerian National Order of Merit, the prestigious award given each year for intellectual accomplishment in the four areas of science, medicine, engineering/technology, and humanities in 2007, seven years after the University of Edinburgh in Scotland, conferred him with an honorary doctorate in divinity.
In 2011,any northerner opposed to the ambition of Buhari was considered an infidel.After the elections,mobs resorted to violence & invaded the homes of members of the PDP & killed their family members & burned down their houses.If those were not fascists,Peter’s guys are not.
Mr Adah held in the judgement that the provision contained in Regulation 124 of the Police Act was unconstitutional.
The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) declared the APC presidential candidate, Bola Tinubu, as the winner of the 25 February election.
Ms Akobundu, who was represented by Zacchaeus Maxwell, Director, Planning, Development and Implementation, AUDA-NEPAD Nigeria, said the workshop was apt, adding that no nation could develop adequately if her citizens were hungry and poor.
A source, who does not want her name mentioned out of concern for her safety, simply identified the victim as Matey.
Supplementary Elections: EFCC deploys 100 operatives to curb vote-buying in three states
“The 2nd petitioner herein conducted its presidental primary on 30th May, 2022 which produced the 1st petitioner as the candidate it intended to sponsor in the general election.”
Consequently, the collation of results of the supplementary election is hereby suspended,” the commission wrote.
Environmentalists have called for a change of behaviour that is contributing negatively to the environment, in order to save the earth.
However, the other five minor parties still maintain the number of seats won in February as they did not win any seat during the supplementary elections.
“The driver of the Toyota car, who did not sustain any injury, was trying to escape from the scene before he was caught by some youths and beaten into coma.
In the North-west, Danmadami said the troops of Operation Hadarin Daji neutralised 30 terrorists, arrested 33 others and rescued 10 kidnapped civilians.
“The Marketing Authorization Holder is Fidson Healthcare Ltd in line with the Agency’s Drug and Related Products Registration Regulation 2021.”
Mr Olarewaju noted that the university’s Vice-Chancellor, Adebayo Bamire, has set up a committee to unravel the circumstances that led to the incident.
According to him, no amount of sugar-coated promises and enticements would make the APC and its candidate betray the trust and confidence entrusted to them by the people of the state.
The centralisation of the process, according to the examination body, was aimed at curbing the use of fake A-level documents for registration.
Based on these concerns and its desire to accurately report the incident amidst unsubstantiated claims on the issue on social media, PREMIUM TIMES placed a telephone call on Thursday to the UK Home Office for further details on Mr Obi’s ordeal.
He said, for instance, a person or organisation cannot commit slander or libel under the pretext of exercising freedom of expression.
This, he said can be done by ensuring that everyone, everywhere, has access to the quality and affordable malaria services they need.
The NSR has been developed through the partnership of State Ministries of Economic Planning, where the State Operations Coordinating Units (SOCU) established by state governments are mandated to build the State Social Register of poor and vulnerable Nigerians.
The others werei Ibrahim Magani, Shehu Galadanchi, Abdulrasheed Adiatu, Haroun Ogbonnia Ajah and Bala Lau.
There was also violence in some places.
Authorities previously detained Gobeze for more than a week in May 2022, and held him for more than two months later that year.
Your political leadership has shown in very many ways, that we respect working together as a country.
The driver suspected to be an internet fraudster popularly known as ‘Yahoo boy’ rammed into about five commercial motorcycles carrying passengers at different spots in Akure
But this may be changing.
Tens of thousands ignored the light rain to mass in a crowd more than 20 deep in some places to watch what some saw as a moment of history.
Yemi Osinbajo, Vice-President of Nigeria: “I think it is now imperative to commence a coordinated approach towards innovation on the continent, bringing together all stakeholders to coordinate efforts at scaling up investments and building programmes that provide the right enabling environment and produce talent pipelines that support the growth of innovation on the continent.”
I know what I want the answer to be and I think you do too.
The three political parties; Action Alliance (AA), Allied Peoples Movement (APM) and Action People’s Party (APP) had, in separate petitions, challenged the emergence of Mr Tinubu as president-elect.
The lawmaker also dismissed the suggestion that he would be a “rubber stamp” speaker, if elected.
The National Publicity Secretary of the party, Felix Morka, announced the ratification while briefing journalists after the meeting.
“You have to be firm.
Others are Romokere Ibiani, Bayelsa; Mohammed Bunu, Yobe; Garba Yusuf, Kaduna State; Garba Ahmed, Zamfara; Hayatu Ali, Sokoto State; and Aliyu Musa, Katsina State.
During the brief proceeding, Teixeira said little, answering “yes” when asked whether he understood his right to remain silent.
In the North-central, he said the troops of Operations Whirl Stroke and Safe Haven apprehended nine suspected kidnappers and nine other criminals, and rescued 21 kidnapped civilians.
The district attorney said the scheme violated New York election law which makes it a crime to conspire to promote a candidacy by a lawful means, adding that the $130,000 wire payment exceeded the federal campaign contribution cap and the false statements in their AMI’s books violated New York law.
A Magistrate Court in Imo State, South-east Nigeria, on 26 April, discharged and acquitted a man arraigned for robbery by the police for seizing his debtor’s phone.
“There was no denial of fair hearing as opportunity was given to the appellant to defend himself by the lower court.
The attacks often target security agencies, government officials and facilities.
The US has a long history of complicity in non-democratic elections on this continent.
Mr Abakpa was appointed the pioneer executive secretary of the commission by President Muhammadu Buhari in April 2021.
Counsel for Messrs Tinubu and Shettima, Wole Olanipakun, a SAN, recalled that his team to the suit agreed to set up a team over the issues of accessing records at a meeting on 10 May.
Moving the motion, Mr Na’Allah said that since January 2021, Nigeria had been the most challenging country in the world for the airlines to repatriate their funds to support their operation.
“These are in addition to maintenance, efficiency, accommodation and expansion of forces.
If the Presidency can find it convenient to lay the blame of the massive killings that the Fulani have continued to perpetrate in Benue on Governor Ortom, what can it say of the massacre and kidnappings in Plateau, Southern Kaduna, Niger, Sokoto and President Buhari’s home state of Katsina among other states where the killing of innocent citizens has continued unchallenged?
He also said the abductors had contacted the family and demanded N50 million ransom.
He noted that he will henceforth patronise Godwin as his new “warranty.”
The APC said the choice was made after consultations with President-elect Bola Tinubu.
Mr Obi, a former governor of Anambra State, enjoyed swelling support mainly in the South-east during the exercise.
“For me, I see it as a mark of confidence from the members of our great party and the entire Imo people at large,” he said.
Mob stones driver to death for allegedly killing 2 in Ondo
It said the deputy speaker from South-south will provide the needed balance in the event that a Northern Muslim emerges as the Speaker.
One year after Alaafin’s transition, Oyomesi, Oyo indigenes await Governor Makinde’s announcement of successor
We need role models and not sell-outs,” he said.
Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun [PHOTO CREDIT: dapoabiodunmfr]Mr Adebutu has filed a petition before the state’s Governorship Election Petition Tribunal to challenge Mr Abiodun’s declaration as winner of the election.
Represented by the Secretary to the State Government, Olubanwo Adeosun, Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State appreciated the foundation for the donation, noting that Mr Adebutu is “a philanthropic Nigerian who donates generously irrespective of political or religious affiliations of the beneficiaries.”
Atiku says the initial decision the REC in Adamawa, Hudu Yunusa-Ari, to declare Binani as the winner of the governorship election is a case study in the shambolic nature of the 2023 polls in general.
Much of the ceremony featured elements that Charles’ forebears right back to King Edgar in 973 would recognise, officials said.
The IPOB leader’s lawyer added that the court also ordered the hearing of the appeal to be expedited because of the continued “solitary confinement” of Mr Kanu in Nigeria.
It noted that 4,108 suspected cases and 823 confirmed infections have been recorded in 24 states across 98 Local Government Areas as of 2023.
But neither Obi, the presidential candidate of LP, nor his VP candidate has demonstrated the universally known genuine spirit of sportsmanship.
Our legal team has been instructed to take appropriate legal actions against Peoples Gazette and others.
Mr Obi’s supporters, known as the Obidients, have been up in arms against the literarature icon over his comments.
“Your loyalty to our party is unalloyed and evidenced by the back-to-back electoral victories you have achieved in Osun State, against all odds.
Ms Chukwurah said the accident involved a white-coloured Ford shuttle bus and a pink-coloured articulated vehicle.
The dismissed officers were three Assistant Superintendents of Police, while those affected by reduction in rank include an Assistant Commissioner, a Chief Superintendent, two Superintendents and one Assistant Superintendent.
FRSC confirms 6 dead in Cross River road accident
“The news of his death came as a huge shock to me, knowing full well the depth of his knowledge and vision for a prosperous Nigeria, which we collectively share,” he said.
Since the 1500s, what we now know as Fuji music has influenced a broad mix of other Yoruba music genres, including Sákárà, Apala, Jùjú, Aro Gudugudu, and some elements of Highlife.
He said that the initial decision of INEC Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in Adamawa, Hudu Yunusa-Ari, to declare the APC candidate, Aisha Dalhatu aka Binani, as the winner of the election was a case study in the shambolic nature of the 2023 polls in general.
Mr Osifeso said the officer died after receiving a blow to his head from one of the suspected hoodlums attempting to dispossess him of his gun.
Meanwhile, following publications of the preservative order, Gov Bello had filed a Notice of Intention to oppose, as well as an application seeking to vacate the interim forfeiture order.
Following the workshop, the journalists will be supported with small grants to produce reports that highlight the nature of foreign financial inflows to Nigeria – whether corrosive or capital.
He said the 1993 election recorded 100 casualties, the 1999 elections recorded 80 deaths, the 2003 polls recorded 100 deaths while 300 lives were lost during the 2007 election.
• Kelvin Chukwu Enugu East
NCDC also noted that doctors, nurses and other hospital staff without appropriate precautions also have higher chances of contracting the virus.
“In his later years, he devoted himself to the promotion of Islam and expansion of the frontier of knowledge through training and development of cutting-edge manpower for national growth with the establishment of Crescent University in Abeokuta, his hometown.
The 26-year-old corps member, who was undergoing his mandatory national service at the state police command, was also accused of fraud, impersonation and defamation of character.
He had a long stint both in politics and with the criminal world.
The African Union Development Agency – New Partnership for Africa’s Development (AUDA-NEPAD) has urged rural farmers to embrace climate smart agricultural practices, to improve their yields and ensure food security in the country.
“We will also be scaling back and closing some of our programmes.”
“We initiated this project in 2020 in partnership with BMGF to build on our agency’s PHC demand generation strategies, strengthen the capacity of SPHCDBs (including LGAs/HFs), and community influencers to apply modern behavioural science approaches, advocacy, and communications to PHC demand generation in a COVID-impacted world,” he said.
The National Assembly will be inaugurated in June.
PREMIUM TIMES’ journalist selected for conservation reporting fellowship
“Recall also that Sokoto State House of Assembly was among the State Houses of Assembly that were yet to forward their resolution.
In Rumuokoro Ward, it was noticed that in 34 polling units, results earlier written for the LP were erased and the figures swapped with that of the APC.
In that regard, if there’s anything the movie got right, it is the casting.
“You will recall that when I celebrated my birthday last year, I appealed to my friends that they should convert their gifts into donations to the special schools in the state.
And now that power in Washington is divided, the GOP-controlled House has largely dashed hopes for major legislative accomplishments in the two years ahead of the 2024 vote,” CNN said.
The officer who allegedly shot the man had been arrested and detained.
AUN secures NUC’s approval for new programmes
The journalists have since paid the fine.
The panel noted that on the face of the Woolwich judge’s sentencing remarks, the judge appears to have been concerned about how to recognise the time spent by the offender on curfew.
He sued President Muhammadu Buhari, the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF), and INEC.
The EFCC arraigned him on a 12-count charge and alleged that sums of N300 million, N500 million and N1.5 billion were stolen from pensioners and deposited in the accounts.
The offence, he said, was punishable under the Firearms Act 2004 and contravened the Penal Code.
“Our society is what it is today because of the compromise in our justice system.
It is not a day thing.
“He (Bola Tinubu) urged the US to factor in Nigeria’s important place in Africa and provide needed assistance in the areas of security and economic investment for the nation to lead the way and be a shining example to the rest of the continent,” Mr Rahman said.
“Shija is still in court and is working hand in hand with PDP to have Alia’s victory at the last general election quashed at the tribunal,” Mr Agada said.
Mr Fashola, however, said the Abuja-Kaduna road which is one of the projects embarked upon by the Buhari administration, would not be finished in the life of the administration
Race for House Speaker: Tinubu meets with Betara – Campaign team
“He was negotiating peace.
Mr Emodamore also asked the court to caution the nominal complainant (the former deputy speaker, Iroju Ogundeji) in the case for allegedly sending messages to the speaker to annoy him.
Mr Ige also noted the management also made other rules and regulations that concern the university’s staff and other users on the campus.
As our past President recovers from the experience of this ordeal, I pray that God will comfort the families of those who were killed in the incident and grant them eternal rest.
The statement, which was signed by the Chairman of the school’s Advisory Board, Ike Ofuokwu, lamented the twisted report of the order of the court.
In the recording which went viral, Mr Obi was seeking the clergyman’s help to facilitate votes for him amongst the Christian community.
Besides the above matters, the book indicate that Messrs Amaechi and Bala Usman disagreed over the handling of some of the major operations at the agency.
The Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA) under the leadership of its President-General and Sultan of Sokoto, Sa’ad Abubakar, has announced a committee for the sighting of the month of Shawwal – marking the end of the Ramadan fast.
According to the statement, Zouera Youssoufou, the managing director and chief executive officer of Aliko Dangote Foundation (ADF), has been in contact with the management of Air Peace and the federal government to indicate the foundation’s readiness to support the stranded Nigerians.
Security is not only about the North East, it also spread to the FCT and all over the country.
“You recall that the main challenge we had was first of all securing the authorization of the Sudanese government and then security support for the convoy.
Ms Yakubu’s killing triggered nationwide outrage, with many calling for the arrest and prosecution of her murderers.
This year’s celebration marks 30 years since the UN General Assembly’s decision proclaiming an international day for press freedom, and the president says the landmark is a tribute to media professionals, who risk their lives to keep society informed and educated.
“The Nigerian Embassy has created WhatsApp and Telegram platforms for the students and other Nigerians in Sudan, for the purposes of proper coordination and regular updates.
We are also removing layers, reducing management roles and broadening responsibilities to make decisions more quickly,” he added.
“So on your behalf, it is my very special privilege to officially present the National Economic Council Legacy Report of 2015 to 2023.
A resident of Tsafe town, Haruna Bashar, said those abducted included people from Wanzamai and Kucherri in Zamfara and some communities around Yankara in Katsina State.
Labour party alleges invasion of headquarters by APC thugs, police
“The deceased was an accomplished statesman, a community leader and a patriot who had held several positions at the local, state and federal levels, including the Secretary-General, Ozalla Development Union, President General, Ozalla Development Union.
He also urged members of the association “to keep praying for his quick and safe return.
This year’s summit, themed “Harnessing Alternative Feed Resources for Sustainable Animal Feed ”, brought together several relevant agriculture experts from the private and public sectors, feed millers (toll, commercial and on-farm), media experts and academia in an effort to chart the way forward for the development of Nigeria’s feed sector and agricultural value chains at large.
King Charles III has been crowned Britain’s monarch in a coronation ceremony at Westminster Abbey.
Six bills also scaled first reading at plenary including -Haliru Dantoro University of Fisheries and Aquaculture, New Bussa, Niger Bill, the traditional complementary alternative medicine council establishment bill, the Institute of cooperative professionals of Nigeria establishment bill.
The duo has since been in control of the politics of the state.
According to him, the mood of the nation after the announcement of the winners so far shows that democracy in Nigeria is maturing and can only get better.
According to him, such a lump sum is meant to enable the retiree to finance any post-retirement endeavour of his/her choice.
Discountenance letters seeking withdrawal of our petitions, Labour Party tells tribunals
The report noted that the drastic fall in oil revenue has been a result of the double whammy of lower oil production and petrol subsidy.
The region comprises mainly Igbo-speaking ethnic group.
The court then ordered the defendants to enter their defence.
There were pieces of shattered glasses everywhere.
Before the outbreak, most cases occurred in countries where the virus was endemic.
Born on the 5th of May, 1974, the actor just celebrated his 49th birthday.
“Let me clarify: I know the entity known as Peter Obi, presidential candidate of the Labour Party.
Tochukwu Joseph Ogboji (Purple Crown Academy)
He added that “it is a day to ponder on the state of press freedom globally, defend the Media from attacks on their independence and to pay tribute to journalists who have lost their lives in their line of duty.
“The Ministry wishes to appeal to the Unions to call off the strike and join hands with Management to make the Aviation industry a hub in Africa.”
Mr Umahi made the disclosure on Monday in Abakaliki at the 2023 Workers Day celebration with the theme: “Workers’ Rights and Socio-economic Justice”.
Whatever may be the nature of the imagined human solution to the problems of violence in our society, the human heart must undergo spiritual circumcision (Rom.
According to the court document dated 12 April, the Notice of Appeal was submitted to the tribunal just over a month late and was received on 23 September 2021.
Mr Saraki, a Muslim from the North-central was able to clinch the Senate Presidency by working with the opposition in the Senate and bargaining with the Deputy Senate President – a position clinched by Ike Ekweremadu, a PDP senator from the Southeast.
It also prayed for an order compelling the governor to immediately refund all salaries received from 1 August 2018 to 28 May 2019 to the end of that tenure, including allowances and security votes.
Uzoma Abonta (PDP, Abia) spoke against the bill, saying it would infringe on the rights of doctors to move freely.
“Our attention has been drawn to a misleading video report that has gone viral on social media captioned ‘Southern Kaduna community protests killings, accuses military of compromise’.
A simple analogy is this – I am a Roman Catholic and I practise my thoughts and religion by participating in the activities of the church.
Mr Tinubu said that Atiku could not have won the poll because he was a serial election loser.
This, it said would require two critical actions on boosting non-oil revenue, namely tax reforms and domestic revenue mobilisation.
So, if the NARD has strike funds to pay their members for those five days, no problem.
One of the fellows, Martha Agas, a journalist with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), said she is excited about the opportunity and that the training has reinforced her desire to reflect women’s voices as sources in all her reportage.
In furtherance of my desire to engender a broad based investigation and an enlargement of the fight against corruption, I will also demand that Abdulrasheed Bawa excuse himself and surrender himself for investigation, as I and some eminent Nigerians have evidence of corrupt practices, breach of public trust and abuse of office against him and the commission led by him.
• Bamidele Michael Opeyemi – Ekiti Central
According to the Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Mpox was first discovered in 1958 when two outbreaks of a pox-like disease occurred in colonies of monkeys kept for research.
That person is no other than Hon.
She noted that the nation needs a feed central laboratory in Nigeria with properly calibrated equipment for feed millers.
“And although we have many achievements of which to be proud, we still face many challenges – some old, some new.
In September, after a seven-storey building collapsed leaving six people trapped, a government official said that the developer refused to halt construction after the site was “sealed three times.”
Media Rights Agenda said in its suit that NBC fines violated the right to a fair hearing under Section 36 of the Nigerian constitution and Articles 7 of the African Charter on Human and Peoples Rights (Ratification and Enforcement) Act.
People have been brought to the table for consultation.
If, from here on, I now comply with entreaties from several valued, genuinely concerned directions, and ignore new provocations, however vile, it is only because I also approve of Mohammed Ali’s strategy of Rope-a-Dope, where blind menace is left flailing hopelessly at the disdainful manifest of Truth.
“Again, the court will weigh the evidence to see whether the custodians allow the applicant requisite access to medical treatment peculiar to his medical condition.
Aishe, a final-year student of the Civil Engineering Department was clobbered to death in a mob action after some students accused her of cell phone theft.
The ongoing conflict in Sudan featured heavily in various discussions across the three days, with public interventions from the likes of Abdalla Hamdok, former Prime Minister of Sudan, Amina Mohammed, Deputy Secretary-General of the United Nations, Moussa Faki Mahamat, Chairperson of the African Union Commission, and Comfort Ero, President and CEO of the International Crisis Group.
“Now, more than ever, deliberate steps must be taken to safeguard the socio-economic rights of workers.
He then fixed 11 July for sentencing.
Apart from the fact that it offends the doctrine of Separation of Powers, a third-world President cannot be imbued with this dangerous power.
Speaking in a media chat in Port Harcourt on Tuesday, Mr Wike said he was aware of the effort by the PDP to manipulate delegate lists in Kogi State to favour Mr Maleye, a former senator from the state.
“For those of us in the legislature, this means that the quality of our law-making and advocacy, the excellence of our constituency services, the thoroughness of our oversight activities and the substance of our discourse in the chamber must be unimpeachable.
Mr Obasanjo agreed that the offence for which the defendants were convicted is “unpleasant and condemnable and can’t be tolerated in any sane or civilised society” but urged for a soft landing for Mr Ekeremadu and his wife.
Seplat Energy said last week the court had repealed the orders initially issued against its CEO and its chairman.
Not yet a significant case has been credited to him in media reports, perhaps many could be found to his name in legal reports.
However, we want to make it clear to the APC party, APC led-government and its agents that Mr Peter Obi a widely traveled man has no intention to leave the country at this time irrespective of the pressure on him and his family.
“The petition is now dead and buried.
“I asked him why, he said at the end of the day wealth means nothing if it doesn’t positively impact the lives of others.”
Mr Onifade however said Peter Obi has since returned to Nigeria.
The lawyer to Atiku, Benson Igbanoi, also faulted the competence of the suit while arguing the preliminary objection he filed for his client.
The circumstances that led to the eventual sack of the woman who was asked to lead one of Nigeria’s most important agencies corroborated allegations of power play, high-handedness, toxic tendencies and weak leadership prowess.
“Our Clients were registered as farmers in the government forest reserve and for this, they paid the sum of N4,000 registration fee each and paid the sum of N4,000.00 each for issuance of ID Cards, though the cards paid for were not issued to them all.
Air Peace claimed the NLC had “attacked” the company before during their protest against N18,000 minimum wage fixed by the Nigerian government, despite the fact that the company’s minimum wage at that time was N50,000.
He said Nigeria is ranked number one in Africa, and number two globally in terms of the number of malnourished children, with an estimated 14.7 million children under the age of five years predicted to suffer this year from wasting, a condition from moderate and severe to acute malnutrition.
I later got to know that the late politicians had recommended to the President that another Katsina State indigene, late Engineer Usman Abubakar be appointed as Chairman of the Governing Board of the NPA”, she said.
Spoilt all the canopies.
The party wants the court to declare the presidential candidate of a rival party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, who is also purrsuing his separate petition, as the winner of the electoin.
Police arrest APGA factional chairperson in court premises
While Mr Tinubu polled 8.7 million votes, Atiku and Mr Obi polled 6.9 million and 6.1 million votes respectively.
Mr Garba, however, assured that justice would be pursued on the matter and that it would be seen to be delivered.
The body, first named on May 3 2017, has now been restructured into a compact three-member panel down from its initial seven-person format.
But the response he got was from a fake UBA agent, who engaged and asked him to send his sensitive bank details.
The president had on Wednesday requested the approval of the senate to obtain the loan facility to finance the National Safety Net Programme.
Hon Abass’s constituency projects are well on the ground in every part of the constituency and of the 114 bills signed into law between 2019 and now, he single-handedly has 21 in a House of 360 members.”
“We must not allow ourselves to be divided by ethnicity, religion or political affiliation; corruption continues to remain an obstacle to development in our country.
“I’m happy that the stance has helped in sustaining industrial peace in the country,” he said.
They offer our courses with very good practical and they can admit us on our conditions.
We call on President Buhari to rein in his desperate officials at all levels as their actions or inactions could lead to unnecessary crisis in the country.
Meanwhile, the management of Dufil Prima Foods Plc, makers of Indomie Noodles in Nigeria, has said its products are 100 per cent locally produced in the country and are safe for consumption.
When the question on the leaked recording was first asked by the Arise TV anchor, Mr Obi responded by saying that “he is fine” with the motives behind circulation of the recording but never mentioned whether he had the “religious war” discussion with the clergyman.
Minister @hadisirika , in furtherance of Open Governments program which your @NigeriaGov administration signed to, please share the full specification details of the fire trucks procured.
The 29 was picked from among the 65 people earlier arrested by the police.
“The victims have been given mass burial.
The next World Cup will be held in India in 2023.
“That Nigeria is no longer operating at a local scale in terms of the observance and promotion of human rights, but indeed upscaling its international observance to international best practices as far as the human rights, promotion and protection of human rights is concerned.
“If this sale of the primary spectrum allocated to broadcasting is allowed to happen, all television stations operating on frequency 600MHz will be affected negatively,” an official said.
We’re proud to award her this year’s IPI-IMS World Press Freedom Hero award.”
Georgian civilians had been taken prisoners, driven from their homes or killed.
— OptaJose (@OptaJose) May 17, 2023
Maybe the governor is punishing us for not giving him a second term.
Can we learn from this?
The Nation grew out of a selected narrative and juxtaposition narratives of the black experience deliberately calculated to generate and re-enforce a sense of victimhood and anger at oppression by whites.
It was not until 2013 that the APC was created as a merger of the CPC, ACN, a faction of the PDP and a faction of the APGA, which then went on to win the 2015 elections and has since then been the ruling party at the centre.
An investigation revealed that the vandals had set a fire underneath the bridge to gain access to iron rods and other steel components under the bridge.
“We also alerted the Ajiwe FSU Police Division for investigation.
The President of LASUTH-ARD, Salmon Abeeb, said the chapter had complied 100 per cent with the directive by the national body.
Earlier, Mr Taylor explained that the visitors are convinced that they are of African origin after a scientific test popularly known as “Ancestral DNA” confirmed that they have a high concentration of the African gene.
The Nigerian government has approved the implementation of the 2023 fiscal policy measures and revised excise duty rates on alcoholic beverages, cigarettes and tobacco products.
In his argument, Mr Mickel, lawyer to the Nigerian, argued that the bags were outside of Mr Fagbewesa’s control from 11 February 2020 when they were checked in at Lagos airport until they were returned to him on 15 February 2020.
He said he was informed of their arrest by the Lagos police commissioner.
“Let me also add that some Nigerians have actually been evacuated by ship, I guess from Port Sudan, by the government of Saudi Arabia,” he said.
Since the official function at every independence anniversary was done in different regions, Tinubu was required to fly from the country’s capital, in a helicopter, to Mamu, where that year’s event was held.
Samuel Aruwan, the Kaduna State commissioner of the Ministry of Internal Security and Home Affairs, announced the development in a statement to reporters on Tuesday.
It’s just an entry measure, but this year we are trying to use that as a pilot programme to see what is actually happening –how these candidates, these fake, forged A-level results, were able to actually enter into the system.”
The federal government has declared Friday, 21 April, and Monday, 24 April, as public holiday to mark this year’s Eid-el-Fitr celebration.
The university said meat derived from the breeds is the healthiest of all red meats, having low fat, calories, low cholesterol, and high in protein.
"I think it is time for us to take stock and find out why we are receding and how we can make sure that our eminent position as the leading political party in this country, as the oldest political party in this country, we regain our position."
“On the contributory pensions scheme, we will resolve all outstanding issues affecting the welfare and service entitlement due to all workers.”
“It is a fact that for the executive arm of government to perform maximally, it must work with the legislature professionally to ensure dividends of democracy to the teaming population of Nigerians.
Nigerian politician and entrepreneur, Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu, has been confirmed as the president-general of the Igbo socio-cultural organisation, Ohanaeze Ndigbo.
Woodberry was said to have told Individual B to “set up a separate business account just to receive the money.”
Mr Ale said the patient was immediately discharged by the private hospital while the family made arrangements to transfer the patient, a mother of a newborn, to IDH “since it is a designated hospital for infectious disease.”
The other nine candidates who participated in the election got tiny fractions of the total votes cast.
Justice House International Organisation wants the NBA to sanction Mr Ari whom it said his conduct was incompatible with the status of a legal practitioner.
Mr Njoku denied the charges.
According to the communiqué, in March 2023, Petroleum Profit Tax (PPT), Companies Income Tax (CIT), Oil and Gas Royalties, Import and Excise Duties, Electronic Money Transfer Levy(EMTL) increased remarkably while Value Added Tax (VAT) decreased considerably.
Even though Mr Tinubu has no record of religious fanaticism, it did not stop many from accusing him of having an “Islamization agenda” that must be stopped by any means necessary.
We have done most of that.
Earlier, in his remarks before the Benin throne, Mr Pomp congratulated the Oba for redirecting the course of history
About 24 million voters gathered in February at over 176,000 voting points across the country to choose Nigeria’s next president, but only five persons will cast crucial votes at the first of two court stages in a conference room in Abuja in September.
Some oral health diseases may come as silent killers and people don’t visit dentists until it’s so bad so we will give them precautions on what they can do and how to maintain good oral hygiene,” she said.
“We also have the financial incentives where it will allow retention of girls in school as well as financial incentives for beneficiaries and caregivers,” she said.
“In fact, Labour Party won the election but it was brazenly stolen by APC.
Gwagwalada – BNXN, Kizz Daniel, Seyi Vibez
“Apart from that, the project is also delayed by the Ajaokuta-Kaduna-Kano gas pipeline project.
Nigeria is currently unable to evacuate thousands of its citizens stuck in troubled Sudan due to the dangers posed to air travel in the North African country, an official has said.
Mr Maikyau had appealed to the Inspector-General of Police and the police commissioner in Rivers State “to leave no stone unturned as they work towards the safe release of our dear learned friend”.
“Its features help improve hygiene and enhance accessibility and inclusiveness,” he said.
Section 58(5) of the 1999 constitution gives the National Assembly the power to override the president on a rejected bill.
The Commissioner of Police, Olanrewaju Oladimeji, has directed that the suspect be transferred to the State Criminal Investigations Department to prosecute him with other members of his syndicate.
*Victim Company G: $1,044,569.99
Mr Gwadabe died in Kano at the age of 86 after battling an undisclosed ailment
They’ve said he was not in Liberia during those times and that specifically in 2003, he served as an informant for the UN backed Special Court for Sierra Leone and was placed in a “safe house.” They argued he was under a “tight security protection,” so, there was no way he could have left the place.
An evacuation will only be possible when there is an “effective and genuine ceasefire,” Ms Robles added.
Mr Osifeso said few meters away from the initial stoppage point, the vehicle veered off the road to a nearby garage, driving directly into the waiting hands of hoodlums who were also collaborators in the criminal process.
“It is our conviction that a diverse and united legislative leadership is critical to good governance.
“The government will begin implementation of some short, medium and long-term solutions which include dredging of canals and desilting of blocked drainages.
Most of these informants are said to be getting “something” in return from the for their role.
“It shows the level of ignorance and lack of awareness among residents,” Mr Oke said,”
“I want to withdraw money, will the machines pay today?”
Mr Kekemeke also said: ”This court by the virtue of 299 (a) is like a state high court.
• Abubakar Abdulaziz Yari – Zamfara West
It can also be operated remotely and integrates with traffic management systems (ATM) and multi-sensor command and control, minimising the number of personnel required to operate it.
The new deputy vice chancellor, Mr Abdullahi, was the Director of Academic Planning and Deputy Dean, Postgraduate School from 2021.
A disgruntled member of the Senate or House may collaborate to pull off an encore of the 2015 rebellion.
Mr Ogbonna further said there were three reports of political intolerance and killing of six law enforcement agents.
“Thank you very much.
“But the Ministry would later decline the request in a letter dated 12 February 2015 and directed to the Permanent Secretary, Kaduna State Ministry of Lands, Surveys and Country Planning,” the president of the association explained.
The government further said the Court of Appeal “misdirected itself when it relied on the manner (of Mr Kanu’s extradition) in robbing the trial court of its jurisdiction,” adding it was “inconsistent with the judicial precedent of” the Supreme Court
The Chairman of AYLF, Olayinka Jimoh, craved the support of the presidency in giving strategic training to young wigs to enhance their leadership roles in society.
Besides agreeing to make restitution, he also agreed to forfeit to the United States any property “constituting or derived from proceeds obtained, directly or indirectly, as a result of the offence, and any property used, in any manner or part to commit the offence.”
“What is however curious about his defence is that the hospital where he claimed the two children died in Ijebu Ode could neither be located nor where he allegedly buried them behind a rented apartment he lived in Ijebu-Ode before relocating to his present abode in Ibiade with the third child for possible exhumation be traced.
Policeman killed, five injured as Dangote truck rams into vehicles in Ogun – FRSC
Kaduna in recent years has witnessed attacks by various armed groups.
The Inspector-General of Police, Usman Baba, had on Sunday ordered Mr Kuti’s arrest after a video of the musician assaulting a policeman surfaced online.
Emmanuel Agim, a member of the Supreme Court panel who read the lead judgement, noted: “It is the record in the BIVAS machines that can prove the number of accredited voters in a polling unit and nothing else.”
The noted and internationally acclaimed Nigerian novelist and essayist, Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie, deserves a great deal of pity and sympathy for her so utterly biased piece titled ‘Nigeria’s hollow democracy’ published in the latest edition of ‘The Atlantic’ magazine.
Mr Lawan read the letter after the senators emerged from a closed-door session, which lasted for about one hour.
The counsels to the state government and the deceased family, Akin George and Femi Falana respectively, reportedly did not object to the application.
The books for public presentation are: “STATE OF REPAIR: HOW MUHAMMADU BUHARI TRIED TO TRANSFORM NIGERIA FOR THE BETTER” by Anthony Goldman, former journalist and ex Africa Editor of the Financial Times of London; and “THE LEGACY OF MUHAMMADU BUHARI” by Abu Ibrahim, former representative of Southern Katsina Senatorial District in the National Assembly.
The Federal High Court in Abuja refused to grant an application by ECOBANK Nigeria Limited to restrain the federal government from forcing the bank to refund N800 million arising from loss suffered due to the multiple payments made to beneficiaries of the Amnesty Programme.
We kick started the $2.8 billion Ajaokuta–Kaduna–Kano (AKK) natural gas pipeline project.
The jurist, a law graduate of the law faculty of Obafemi Awolowo University, is 63 years old.
The president-elect detailed Atiku’s several, but unsuccessful bids for the presidency since 1993 when he first ran for the top job before becoming President Olusegun Obasanjo’s deputy from 1999 to 2007.
The labour demand at the destination also shapes outcomes.
“More curious is the urgency by which NBC is rushing to ensure the sale of the spectrum within a short period of expiration of the tenure of the current administration.”
“Mallam Yunusa Ari’s action is subversive and calculated to cause crisis in Adamawa State, destabilise our democracy and peaceful co-existence as a nation.
Mr Mohammed said the government has demonstrated commitment towards addressing malnutrition in the country, “which led to the approval by the Federal Executive Council of NMPFAN, and the inclusion of nutrition in the National Development Plan.”
According to him, it took five weeks for him to be issued his passport after his biometric exercise.
But if it is an agreement between two of them, then it is not robbery.”
It’s like you want to destroy her.
Hushpuppi, after initially pleading not guilty, changed his plea to guilty in April 2021, and was subsequently jailed 11 years by the US District Court for Central California in November 2022.
“Revenue collected by the DISCOs during the period stood at N202.62 billion in Q3 2022 from N188.41 billion in Q2 2022, showing a rise of 7.54 per cent.
“Now I know why some of your folks deride the Due Process-Public Procurement reforms.
Mr Shettima made this known on Saturday in Abuja at the reading session of a book written by a former Managing Director of the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), Hadiza Usman.
Transcorp confirms Otedola’s 5.5% shareholding stake
Reuben Muoka, the director of public affairs at NCC, in a statement on Tuesday, said the CSIRT described 2FA as an identity and access management security method that requires two forms of identification to access resources and data.
Speaking on the alleged receipt of N500 million from opposition political parties to destabilise the party, Mr Apapa said he knew nothing about it.
2,518 Nigerians evacuated from Sudan – NiDCOM
He said the process for the appointment of judges to the Bench of the court would also be based on competence and merit.
They are merely symptoms.
The law has categorically stated how aggrieved persons or losers in an election would channel their grievances.
Mr Wike, a member of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), was believed to have worked for Mr Tinubu, who was the presidential candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the 25 February election.
Amongst the competent hands, a winner will emerge.
By 11:45 a.m. when our reporter spoke to Mrs Lawal, her son and other candidates sitting for the 9 a.m. tests were still in the hall.
Mr Gbajabiamila promised to write to the relevant bodies in respect of Mr Ekweremadu.
“The PDP, therefore urges Nigerian workers and indeed all citizens not to resign to despondency but remain optimistic in the hope that the judiciary will right the wrong meted on our nation so that Nigeria can return to the path of peace, political stability and economic prosperity.
And we witnessed an astonishingly respectable spectacle of First Lady Aisha Buhari taking Senator Oluremi Tinubu, wife of the President-elect Bola Ahmed Tinubu, round the Presidential Villa, their soon-to-be- abode.
If your 9th Assembly can override this veto, a stop will immediately be put to this specific executive lawlessness.
Dr Musa Adamu Aliyu – ALTERNATE CHAIRMAN
Punch newspapers in its Tuesday editorial faulted the Buhari government’s decision to embark on new financial commitments a few weeks before its 29 May handover date.
Also charged is a company, Jointrust Dimentions Nigeria Ltd.
The tests, to be administered to about 1.6 million candidates between 25 April and 2 May, commenced nationwide on Tuesday.
The police spokesperson said Mr Agbo, the suspect, hails from Ebonyi State.
We won by sheer hard work, the same thing you have always encouraged us to do.
Four of the assented Bills relate to the executive.
Murtala Muhammed’s daughter releases book on abducted Chibok girls
The buildup was marked by so much expectation about a transition to a new order in Nigeria.
We see the further provision of global food security, of which Ukraine was and remains a reliable guarantor at the global level, as an important direction of cooperation.
“We are happy that some State Governments and private investors, who participated at the maiden edition of this conference are already taking good advantage of the business opportunities available in the industry, and are already positioning their States and organisations strategically for greater productivity and profitability,” Mr Yadudu said.
Reacting in a statement on Tuesday by its spokesperson, Alex Ogbonnia, Ohanaeze said the report claiming that the group had planned to participate in the inauguration of the president-elect did not emanate from them.
Police spokesperson in Ebonyi State, Onome Onovwakpoyeya, confirmed this in a statement on Sunday.
She said there were an estimated 10,000 to 20,000 new refugees in the first three sites visited.
Mr Ojo noted that other statutory provisions like the provision of assistive devices and priority voting will also help PWDs in ensuring inclusion.
The permanent secretary, Mrs Ngige, who confirmed this, also emphasised that the upcoming China-Africa Economic and Trade Expo (CAETE) is crucial for Africa and Asia to strengthen collaborations and deepen economic relationships, noting that “economic and trade alliances are strategic for long-term prosperity”.
However, said nine people were killed by the terrorists in the incident.
“Upon search of the bus, seven large sacks containing 553 parcels of cannabis sativa, also known as Indian hemp, were discovered.
Mr Trump before his indictment declared his intention to run for office again.
Let the North play a stronger, more robust and all-inclusive roles in the emergence of the positions zoned to the region, especially the Speakership.
“At this point, I will use the words of my leader, emi lokan, emi lokan, emi lokan”, Mr Wase said, referring to Mr Tinubu as his leader even though he rejects the latter’s endorsement of a different aspirant.
Some young men believed to be the officials of the union, were seen standing by, discussing the incident.
However, the security situation has not improved under his watch.
NBA PRESIDENT APPEALS FOR RELEASE OF OKEY WALI, SAN
The convener of the group, Okpokwu Ogenyi, while briefing journalists in Abuja on Saturday also supported the call for Barau Jibrin (APC-Kano) to be the Deputy Senate President.
The police said Dayo Bankole, a trader in the market, was shot dead by the robbers during the operation.
Anna Joseph, a caterer and one of the trainers, said she is motivated to teach people new skills to make their lives better and easier.
For some, it is a civic space to exercise freedom of expression, while for others, it is the best place for networking, connecting with colleagues on the other side and socialising with friends.
The Federal Government says the 2023 polls are the least violent in the history of elections in Nigeria.
The INEC, PDP and its candidate for the election sued as respondents to the petition are expected to file their defence before the hearing begins.
If leadership in the country goes to the highest bidder, I don’t think those like the late President Yar’Adua would have ruled Nigeria.
He added that especially its inherent potency to advocate for the realization of other human rights.
The presidential election, held on 25 February, produced Bola Tinubu as president-elect.
Mr Condé, who is currently in exile in Turkey following a 2021 coup that ousted him, made the comments after a snapshot bio-data page of a Guinean passport show Mr Tinubu’s photo and details trended online.
Ms Onovwakpoyeya said the Ezza warriors attacked the Effium communities but were repelled by the security agencies.
The court granted police an additional 14 days to hold Gobeze for investigation, and he is due in court on May 24, Addisu said.
“Meanwhile, since 2000, the number of people who experience financial hardship from out-of-pocket health spending has increased by a third, to almost two billion."
A cross section of the workers disclosed this in separate interviews with the News Agency of Nigeria, (NAN) on Monday in Calabar.
When she arrived in the UK, the UK border force officials asked why she was an unaccompanied minor and heard her story of how her father had sexually assaulted her.
It said after deducting the excessive votes that were cast, the figure Mr Adeleke scored came down to 290,666, which was lower than the 314,921 garnered by Mr Oyetola.
$1 Million Per Vote: Lawmakers reply APC governors, say no aspirant is offering bribe for senate presidency, speakership
– when and how he was released,
“Those who are kicking against (Iwuanyanwu’s emergence) have not met anywhere to talk about alternatives.
Nigeria will begin the evacuation of its second batch of citizens from Sudan on Saturday.
“The police and the Ekiti State House of Assembly will always collaborate because we enjoy a very cordial relationship and I believe that this will continue during your tenure as the Commissioner of Police,” she said.
“They know both of you could NOT have won when, as opposition parties, you split your votes into three parts, with even a revolt of 5 of your Governors within your depleted party.”
The incumbent president of the NBA, Yakubu Maikyau, who led the association’s delegation to the heartbroken family’s home in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, had disclosed the news of Mr Wali’s abduction last week.
”They are not discriminated against and they are given all that is due to them.
Woodberry, an ally of another jailed fraudster, Hushpuppi, agreed to make $8 million restitution and surrender the posh assets he owned in Dubai, in a plea agreement he signed with the US government.
By yesterday, I saw the president-elect on his invitation and he told me that he is already committed and he said please don't run and I accepted and I stepped down for my brother, Senator Akpabio."
Mr Iwuanyanwu replaces the immediate past president-general of the Igbo group, George Obiozor, whose death was announced in December.
He noted that the most urgent mission for Mr Tinubu is to start a psychological journey of making Nigerians feel whole again, of creating a large tent of opportunity and hope for us all, of expanding the frontiers of collective freedom, and of cutting off the chains of ethnicity and religious bigotry.
Third-party candidates were also primed to take advantage of these divisions based on their identities.
He (Doguwa) is a very respectful member of the House who relates well with all members both the senior, both the old, both the junior.
“70 per cent of the operational costs of most poultry, aquaculture and other livestock operations go to feed,” he said, adding that “climate change has affected human lives and has changed the world.”
Mr Echono added that 95 per cent of the N320 billion TETFund’s disbursement for 2023 would go directly to beneficiary tertiary institutions.
On state profile analysis, the report said Lagos State had the highest number of active voice subscribers in Q4 2022 with 26,460,867, followed by Ogun with 12,994,352 and Kano with 12,373,201.
“However, one Inspector Friday Obaka, who was later discovered to have been absent from the scene of the skirmish was discharged unconditionally after the proceedings.
The DE registration, billed to end on 20th April, has now been extended by one week, starting from 21st April.
“This will eliminate the winner takes all syndrome and further ethno-religious inclusivity and a strong, virile, united, progressive, prosperous, equitable and just democratic nation.
Following a Supreme Court ruling, the policy was reversed in March when the bank directed commercial banks to dispense and receive the old N200, N500, N1000 bank notes.
“Following our standard protocol, we served them an abatement notice, giving them the required time allowable under law, to clean up.
Mr Sulaimon said although it is estimated that about 20,000 persons should have haemophilia, the country accounts for only 1,000 cases.
A three-member panel of the Court of Appeal upheld the findings of the trial judge in Croydon that “There is no evidence of prejudice to the defence that would have a materially adverse effect on the fairness of the trial.”
“Buhari has empowered and emboldened the Fulani pastoralists in their expansionist agenda including killings.
Responding, the new FOC commended his predecessor for all the achievements he recorded, and solicited the support and cooperation of officers and men in the command to enable him succeed.
He offloaded the shares via two transactions executed on different dates.
Ms Angela said the implementation of the Discrimination Against Persons with Disabilities (Prohibition) Act 2019, has been poor, urging telecommunication organisations, private sectors, and the government to collaborate to ensure that the policy is implemented.
A soldier was also killed,” he said.
Before now, users of the famous messaging and video calling app can only log into an account on a single phone with the same number.
At a centre where a technical hitch was experienced, one of the supervisors said the hitch was from JAMB.
Women and children were among the victims of the abductors.
For instance, churches and Islamic organisations in Nigeria are not charities.
She assured that 900 laptops would be distributed to 35 schools, while 65 other schools would get 1,600 laptops in the next two months.
Roughly a fifth of the Senate, consisting of 21 of the currently declared 101 senators, are not from the two dominant parties.
I’m strong; very strong.’’
FRSC confirms 12 deaths in Ebonyi road accident
According to him, as a gifted and iconic journalist, author and publisher, Mr Enahoro earned public trust through his fearless writings, tenacity, and commitment to the pursuit of truth.
Mr James admitted they protested the monarch’s installation but didn’t attack anyone.
“Completing the building by government and concession so that the new concessionaire can complete the ports and put it effectively to use.”
Then the policeman said if he had said something otherwise, he would have beaten him mercilessly.
On his part, Mr Kaswe disagreed with the defence request.
Governors elected on the platform of Nigeria’s ruling party, All Progressives Congress (APC), stated this ‘rumour’ in a memo to the country’s newly elected president, Bola Tinubu.
In his response, presidential spokesperson Garba Shehu claimed the editorial was ‘partisan.’
The National Working Committee of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has ratified the zoning formula proposed by the President-elect, Bola Tinubu, ignoring protests by aggrieved members of the party on the lopsidedness of the arrangement.
INTERVIEW: I want to be Speaker or Deputy Speaker but nothing less — Onuoha, the only female in the race
There are 162 students sponsored by Governor Muhammed Badaru, who are studying medicine in the Sudan.
I reiterate my resolve to lead an Enugu State of equal access to the promises, opportunities, and blessings that democracy holds for us, irrespective of social status or clan,” he said.
Specifically, the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) rejected the law, arguing that the regulatory roles the law gave the registrar of CAC and a supervising minister over churches was unconstitutional.
Because now the government has to deal with another dilemma over a visiting head of state with an ICC arrest warrant – Russian President Vladimir Putin.
This is because of notable upsets from candidates who displaced incumbents or well-known politicians from the two traditional parties (APC and PDP).
“You don’t just enforce these things (leadership positions) on independent people."
Nigeria will spend about $1.2 million (about N550 million) on the hiring of luxury buses that will transport its stranded citizens from Khartoum, the Sudanese capital, to Egypt.
“Within the period under review, from 4 February 4 2022 till date, our sustained operations led to the arrests of 27 vessels engaged in illegal bunkering, crude oil theft and other maritime illegalities.
He said the wife of the deceased politician has a son, while she is still pregnant.
The Majority Leader of the House of Representatives, Alhasan Doguwa, has been re-elected to represent the Doguwa/Tudunwada Federal Constituency of Kano.
Taye Currency, Pasuma, other trending crossover Fuji artistes
Adamawa Governorship: PDP demands arrest of REC
PT: Some of your colleagues have been speaking with the president-elect, have you met him?
President Buhari and his wife Aisha Buhari have shown good faith and shown they want a seamless orderly and peaceful transfer of power to the incoming administration.
PDP – 6, 548
“It is an honour to the government and people of Rivers State to host the President-elect on this historic visit.
This year’s squad, led by Coach Nduka Ugbade, is fresh, comprising young talents primarily sourced from secondary schools and academies across Nigeria.
“We are not aligned with any candidate.
Tinubu accepts Wike’s invitation to commission projects in Rivers
The Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), Hudu Ari, had declared Mrs Dahiru the governor-elect, following last Sunday’s supplementary election in the state.
Umesh Pal was killed in February this year when several people fired at him.
PREMIUM TIMES, nevertheless, tallied the figures as published by INEC, despite the obvious evidence of adjustments and mutilations.
They added that the money will go a long way in alleviating the hardship of the sudden and untimely demise of their breadwinners and loved ones.
It is, however, not clear from the story if a passport was issued to Mr Tinubu by the former president of Guinea.
“Any senator-elect who wants to occupy the position, must seek the support of others, which I am doing,” he said.
Mr Oshundun added that they erected their equipment even before last Thursday when the Nigerian Army used the venue for an event attended by the president.
In October 2022, he spent 12 days in the UK.
180 dead, 1,800 injured as fighting continue in Sudan
Following the presentation of the motion, the House resolved to invite the Minister of Mines and Steel Development, Olamilekan Adegbite, to appear before it in a plenary session to explain the details of the concession process.
The attack, based on the association’s account, overwhelmed the two police officers in the convoy who escaped with gunshot injuries.
He was evasive when being asked questions that would lead to him having to give inconsistent answers and he gave as little information in response to questions as he could.
“The UK can support countries within the region to provide their own solutions to their problems.
On its parts, the APP claimed that Mr Tinubu was, at the time of the election, not qualified to contest the poll by virtue of the provisions of Sections 131(c) and 142 of the Constitution and Section 35 of the Electoral Act 2022.
CSIRT is the telecom sector’s cyber security incidence centre set up by the NCC to focus on incidents in the telecom sector and as they may affect telecom consumers and citizens at large.
A police corporal attached to him was killed during the abduction.
The SBM Jollof Index tracks how much it costs to make a pot of jollof rice
Why Tinubu picked Akpabio to be Senate President – Shettima
It is absolutely crucial that the outgoing government of Nigeria does all in its power to bring these girls — as well as all other children being held by various armed groups — home to their families,” said Isa Sanusi.
But the implementation of the court’s decisions has always been an issue.
One male adult sustained injury, while those who died were six, consisting of five males and one female.
While Iranian output was steady, Libya’s output edged lower and Venezuelan production rose slightly, boosting global supply.
“Our hazard allowance still remains N5000.
The report explained that fragmentation into geopolitical blocs has the scope to generate large output losses, including through its effects on foreign direct investment.
Except for Lagos, all the seven states are in the northern part of the country.
During the election he defeated the incumbent, Kasimu Maigatari.
Despite all these, Mr Tinubu won the primary by a landslide.
However, in the gubernatorial election, the fortunes of the two leading parties were reversed as the APC candidate, Ahmed Aliyu, scored 453,661 to defeat Sa’ad Umar who had 404,632 votes.
It was never raised.
Meanwhile, at the Dantata Universal Services, Government Secondary School, GSS, Zone 3, candidates scheduled to start by noon were accredited at around 12:57 p.m.
‘‘In the hands of the opposition, many of the laudable programmes of the Buhari administration would have been sabotaged or unimplemented.
He urged the military to deploy its land and air assets to decimate the terrorists before they wreak more havoc.
“With due respect to the court and without being prejudicial to the position of the law, I want to say that I have obtained a public and political clearance from my people that I am still a worthy ambassador of my people — having won the election again at the supplementary election.
There is of course, always the possibility of a Revolution, with a clarity of purpose and acceptance of all attendant risks, including costly errors.
It is just the manhours now to do the work.
“He became an advisor to General Atlantic’s climate-focused fund, BeyondNetZero, at its inception in 2021.
“The IGP has charged all newly posted and redeployed officers to put their best foot forward in ensuring that the activities of their new commands, formations, and departments align with the Police reform mandate.
“The collapse incident, which was flagged on the physical planning incident management platform on Sunday evening, triggered immediate preliminary enquiries that showed that officers of the state Building Control Agency had issued a number of contravention notices, stop work and seal up orders which the developer ignored and carried on construction without any recourse, whatsoever, to the authorities.”
Nigeria has an obligation to implement safeguards to protect all children, and the lack of accountability for these callous crimes is fueling impunity.
Three World Food Programme staff killed as clashes continue in Sudan
“All of these cannot be achieved if we do not have the security of our operations.
The announcement of the facility, said to be part of “concessional financing”, has attracted widespread criticisms among Nigerians.
His critics believe dual citizenship bars him from the presidency based on section 137 of the constitution.
The villagers appealed to the military and Katsina State Government to respond promptly and deny the terrorists any space to operate.
Others include Tajudeen Abbas (APC, Kaduna) and Aminu Jaji (APC, Zamfara).
The police spokesperson in the state, Bright Edafe confirmed the incident to Punch.
Mr Amode said the committee also constituted a seven-man disciplinary committee to look into all matters affecting the suspended officials.
Explaining the reason for the choice of Godswill Akpabio as the APC’s choice for senate president, Mr Shettima said the president-elect, Bola Tinubu, tried to prevent a situation where the Senate President will also be a Muslim.
Also, the Muslims are angry that a new Chief Imam cannot be appointed for the central mosque in the city because the Alaafin stool is vacant.
Does that make me weak?
Also, a group, under the aegis of Leaders of Thoughts and Legal Icons, had supported the initiative.
Names of El-Rufai, Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano, Abubakar Badaru of Jigawa, Simon Lalong of Plateau, Babatunde Fashola, Nuhu Ribadu are among the top names being speculated to be appointed into the incoming president’s cabinet.
Nigeria is world’s second nation with high maternal, child deaths – Report
The Nigerian government, on Wednesday, commenced the evacuation of Nigerians in Sudan.
Also speaking, Felix Morka, the APC national publicity secretary, said the party was united behind Mr Adamu in spite of speculation of crisis within its leadership.
2023 UTME: JAMB reschedules exam for candidates over technical hitches
Mr Matawalle said this in a public statement wherein he questioned the motive of the EFCC for investigating outgoing governors.
During the visit in the early hours of Sunday, the senators solicited the support of Mr Masaru for the joint ticket of Messrs Akpabio and Jibrin in the race for the leadership of the Senate.
The court also sentenced Mr Ekweremadu’s wife, Beatrice, to four years and six months in prison while a doctor who allegedly colluded with them, Obinna Obeta, was sentenced to 10 years in prison.
It makes the second petition to be withdrawn against Mr Tinubu's victory within the first week of the Presidential Election Petition Court’s sitting.
It pleaded with the court to hear and determine the request “before the swearing-in of Bola Ahmed Tinubu as the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria on 29 May 2023.”
There is also the need to increase the percentage of the budget that goes to capital expenditure and the necessity of trimming recurrent expenditure,” it said.
Muyiwa Adejobi, the force public relations officer, made this known to journalists on the sidelines of the fourth-anniversary Dinner/Award Night of Kemsan Acres Global Ltd. in Ibadan.
The growth and robustness of Air Peace is because we gave them the enabling environment as a Buhari government to do it.
In 2010, the company won a contract from the Ministry of Petroleum Resources to build a gas-processing plant in Nigeria’s southeastern city of Calabar.
Mr Akeredolu called on the APC NWC to urgently convey a meeting of the NEC of the party for a " robust National Caucus/Stakeholders parley to agree on terms that would strengthen our great party."
I said he is already intoxicated with power within a few months after the election.
“The recommendations of the committee brought about streamlining of ministries and introduction of innovations, implementation of outstanding promotions, engagement of over 2, 000 teachers and employment of more than 3,000 new ones.
He appealed to residents of the state to remain calm and law-abiding and assured them that “justice will not only be done, but will be seen to have been done.”
Both the UK government and the LP are yet to give detailed clarification on Mr Obi’s offences, when and how he was released, the conditions upon which he was released, the current status of the case against him and other related issues.
“We remain grateful to God Almighty, who made it all possible and the Chief of the Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Awwal Gambo, for graciously providing the resources.
During the reign of Al-Bashir, academic researchers got alienated from Sudan, with the withering of internal science funding.
“We have resolved that, so we are giving you assurance.
The commission said investigations revealed that the suspects conspired to conduct sex-based extortion of minors and adults in the United States of America.
“But IPOB leadership refused to let the labours of our heroes go in vain.
Murray was also shown evidence of $90,000 in payments to Nigeria’s former minister of police affairs, Broderick Bozimo, and his family.
“All recovered items, apprehended suspects and rescued civilians have been handed over to the appropriate authority for further action,” he said.
The police spokesperson in Akwa Ibom, Odiko Macdon confirmed the incident to PREMIUM TIMES on Tuesday, but said no arrest had been made.
The Secretary-General, Association of Nigerian Aviation Professionals, Abdul Saidu, expressed disappointment that conditions of service in the sector had not been implemented after eight years of signing.
The idea then was to justify violence against the white person who was presented as the devil.
He said Mr Abdullahi succeeds Kasimu Shehu, also a professor, adding that the two-year appointment takes effect from Thursday, 11th May, .
The report said there is an urgent need to broaden the tax net to capture the formal and informal sectors not in the existing tax net.
The lecture was titled “Creating A Homeland for All: Nation-Building in a Diverse Democracy.”
“We have stripped him of his membership to the party in Kukadi/Gundari ward.
Mr Tinubu, who won the February presidential election on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), has been enmeshed in a recent controversy over his alleged citizenship of the Republic of Guinea.
He said that some houses in the housing unit scheme for workers were almost being completed, saying that he would inaugurate them before he leaves office.
Similarly, one National Commissioner each was deployed to Sokoto, Zamfara, Imo, Rivers, Ekiti and Ogun States.”
Mr Manji commended workers for their patience and resilience in discharging their duties in spite of the current economic hardship they are experiencing, urging them not to relent in their efforts.
He was received by a mammoth crowd of enthusiastic associates and supporters who thronged the Presidential Wing of the Nnamdi Azikwe International Airport, Abuja where his plane touched down.
These ones and their kith and kin making up the 200 million plus citizens of our country, the teachers whose backlog of unpaid salaries were paid and the pensioners from years yore, denied payment and treated with contempt now smiling their way to the banks will remember positively that Muhammadu Buhari came, saw and he conquered.
“You see, politics is not a-one-man-takes-it-all affair.
“With the approval of the National Blockchain Policy, we can safely say that blockchain technology with all its components and types have been institutionalised in the country.
In the conversation, the Jordanian leader called to wish the president a happy and successful Ramadan and to especially thank him for naming the auditorium in the newly inaugurated National Counter Terrorism Center in Abuja after him.
In March, new governors were elected in 28 of Nigeria’s 36 states.
The Commission said a total budget of N485.7 billion was proposed for it in 2021, N928.2 billion in 2022, and N876 billion in 2023.
He disclosed that the approved programme of events would be unveiled at a World Press Conference scheduled for Thursday, 18 May.
The Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, therefore, announced a one-minute silence at the upper legislative chamber in memory of the victims.
Buhari to attend coronation of King Charles in London
Mr Keyamo, who served as the spokesperson of the campaign council, told journalists that the irregularities and violence recorded happened at less than one per cent of the total polling units, therefore, not sufficient to change the outcome of the election.
The Turku Court of Appeal has returned to Liberia following a short break in Finland, where it heard some witnesses.
A community leader told NAN on condition of anonymity that some of the villagers have started relocating to avoid being caught up in the impending disaster.
There is no new statistic on poverty but based on the investment we made we know that we improved on the reduction of poverty in Jigawa and we will continue with it, is part of my 12 points agenda and we will pursue it vigorously, Mr Namadi said.
Oguwike Nwachukwu, the spokesperson to Governor Uzodinma, did not respond to calls and a text message seeking his comments.
• Jarigbe Agom Jarigbe C/River North
“The aggregate budget of the federal government is only about 30 billion dollars and the aggregate of the states and FCT budget don’t even add up to the federal budget.
I have been begging her to please forgive me,” he said.
Mr Damagum said continuous delay in declaration of the total results and winner of the election may spark violence in the state.
This did not happen during the draconian era of the military.
A leading contender in the race for Senate Presidency, Orji Kalu, on Wednesday held a closed-door meeting with the President-elect, Bola Tinubu, in Abuja.
Tribune newspaper in February reported how a community – Asemokwu in Ndokwa East local government area of the state was deserted for fear of reprisal attack after the killing of four military officers.
She also accused the American authorities of double standards on democracy on the African Continent.
“With the final decision by the Court, the President reminds the political class and their supporters that the main task at hand is to make the people feel the impact of good governance, where a prosperous, peaceful and stable Osun is guaranteed.”
The minister said the price for the hiring of the buses was hiked by the providers because of the risks involved.
presidential election onto IReV affected the credibility of the election is a fraud.
“Delta stands to gain.
He said for the country to achieve SDGs by 2030, it must make meaningful progress in nutrition.
The president said the successes had led to the resettlement of internally displaced persons to their ancestral homes and the restoration of economic activities, in addition to the contribution of the army to global peace support operations.
PT: One final note, you attended the declaration of Alhassan Doguwa, another aspirant, some may say it is bad optics.
Appointed to the Court of Appeal on 24 March 2014, about nine years ago, Ms Bolaji-Yusuf now occupies the 31st position on the roll call of the judges of the court.
The monarch said this at his palace during a familiarisation visit by the Commandant General of NPC, Mustapha Abubakar, on Friday in Ife, Osun State.
Other states include Akwa Ibom; Edo; Delta; Ekiti; Kano; Gombe; Yobe; Borno; Bauchi; Abia; Imo; Bayelsa; Oyo; Osun; Kwara; Ondo; Ebonyi; Rivers; Niger; Kogi; and Katsina.”
Until twelve years ago when it was bifurcated into two, with South Sudan going its own way, it was about the largest country in Africa.
The commission has since declared the incumbent, Governor Ahmadu Fintiri, as the winner of the election.
‘‘Today’s event is a great example of the type of partnerships that we embarked on to deliver on our mission,” he said.
NBC suggested it has yet to be served the court judgement to be sure of its next line of action.
While some of the students escaped and returned, most of them were released after ransoms were allegedly paid.
The instigating contest – Nigerian Democracy 2023 – has witnessed much that is innovative – largely in the retrogressive vein.
“The gallant operatives swung into action immediately, engaged the bandits in a fierce gun duel and given a hot chase.
In his remarks, Mr Osinbajo said he felt honoured to be celebrated in such a manner.
“I did not even recognise him because there is nothing personal between me and him.
Defence 10, a former radio operator for the RUF, did also corroborate the testimonies of other defense witnesses that Massaquoi headed an external delegation of the group to Liberia for peace purposes in 2000.
The bill, harmonised by the upper and lower chambers of the National Assembly in 2021, is the first legislative reform adopted in the field since the country’s independence, and will also replace the Lunacy Act of 1958.
The former NBA president Okey Wali was abducted in the early hours of Monday.
“Weak and declining consumer purchasing power, Naira exchange rate depreciation which is taking a huge toll on the cost of production, High energy cost,” the statement said.
Rebellion will deny the incoming Tinubu administration the opportunity to deliver on its mandate and the high expectations from Nigerians, especially under the current ethnic and religious tension in the country.
“I was very sad hearing about the killing of the embassy staff and our policemen accompanying them.
“Just as you would recall, the areas where these shanties are built have been mapped out by the state government to serve as an alternate route to motorists along that axis when completed.”
“The people deserve to enjoy the dividends of democracy which I am bringing on board.
Terrorists no longer hold any territory in Nigeria whatsoever, and their leaders have been neutralised by our security forces.
The development had forced the locals to keep vigils over cemetries in the hope of apprehending the graves robbers.
“We’ve been faced and we are not going to stop being faced with a very significant storm,” Mr Essaadi said on Wednesday at a media briefing preceding its annual general meeting.
Europe’s largest nuclear power plant near Zaporizhzhya, which has been under Russian control since March, was shut down in September.
The prosecutors say, specifically on 7 January 2019, Mr Ponle, using the alias “Mark Kain,” sent a message from outside the US to “Individual B” asking Individual B to open a bank account in the name of a Victim Company B supplier.
The letter was signed by the President General of the union, C.N.
The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) at the 2023 general elections, Atiku Abubakar, on Thursday, urged voters in Adamawa and Kebbi to vote for the party at the April 15 supplementary elections.
For good reasons, understand that we are under a democratic tenet, when they are mentioning this—the situation we have found ourselves in, we must talk to ourselves to ensure the right thing is being done.
But last Thursday, the company disclosed in a statement the corporation was yet to be notified of the deals, executed off-market, from the new substantial shareholder.
The police spokesperson, who said the suspects would be charged to court for murder and arson, appealed to members of the public never to take laws into their own hands.
The US Department of State in a press release on its website said, “Secretary of State Antony J. Blinken spoke with Nigerian President-elect Bola Ahmed Tinubu this morning to emphasise his continued commitment to further strengthening the U.S.-Nigeria relationship with the incoming administration.”
UK court to hear Nnamdi Kanu’s appeal seeking British govt to acknowledge his extraordinary rendition
In the motion dated 5 April, the bank’s lawyer, Anthony Idigbe, sought an order of interim injunction restraining the respondents or cohorts from arresting its directors, staff or agents or taking steps to disrupt its business without following due process of law pending the hearing and determination of originating motion.
I demand that the EFCC chair extend similar invitations to officers of the Presidency and members of the Federal Executive Council, which is the highest tier of government in the country.
[PHOTO CREDIT: Twitter handle of Mr Kalu]NAN also reports that the duo thereafter went into a closed door meeting, which lasted for 30 minutes.
Nigeria’s Aviation Minister, Hadi Sirika, has said the Nnamdi Azikiwe Airport has been reopened for operations hours after an aircraft belonging to Max Air crash-landed on Sunday afternoon.
The vice president-elect also encouraged Nigerians to imbibe a healthy reading culture.
“If we wish to see different results, we must do things differently.
The Senate has condemned the violent attacks that claimed many lives and destroyed properties in some communities in Plateau State.
She said the remains of the victim had subsequently been released to his family for burial.
Safety, security and efficiency has been the focus of Buhari’s aviation since 2015.”
PREMIUM TIMES’ calculation from data from the Nigerian Stock Exchange, the acquisition’s regulatory filing and Transcorp’s 2022 audited financial report showed that, taken separately, the stake held through HH Capital, represents 24.6 per cent of Transcorp’s total issued shares of 40.6 billion units.
Sudan’s de facto president and commander-in-chief of the army, Abdel Fattah al-Burhan, said he has agreed to facilitate the evacuation of foreign civilians and diplomats from the embattled country.
The Ooni of Ife says the Nigeria Peace Corps' role is needed in tackling kidnapping, banditry and other security threats across the country
Edo State Government has warned residents of the state against the sale and use of Norvasc 5mg tablets, following a red flag raised by National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) which claimed the drug contains wires.
It allows the President to make orders changing some nominal contents of previous laws to align them with the Constitution.
The enforcement according to him was carried out seamlessly especially as the court had also directed the Nigerian Police Force, officials of the court, and other security agencies to assist AMCON in securing the assets.
“Strangely, the tribunal, in its judgment, only relied on the table set out in an address of counsel to hold that over voting occured in an election,” the Court of Appeal said.
She blamed the crash on speeding and wrongful overtaking on the part of the Dangote truck driver, who she said lost control and crashed into other vehicles from the rear and later plunged into the river.
Mr Adewinmbi added that Mr Jonah too was fine and is also with the police anti-kidnapping unit.
They are inoperative,” Mr Ozekhome, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria and law professor, said.
The workshop aims to create a forum for stakeholders to share their experiences and knowledge on the concepts and manifestations of constructive and corrosive capital so that they are better equipped to trace and investigate this in the Nigerian context.
To the Youth of Nigeria: I salute your energy and courage.
“At its meeting today, 18th April 2023, the Commission discussed matters arising from the Adamawa Governorship election and decided to write to the Inspector-General of Police for the immediate investigation and possible prosecution of the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) for Adamawa State, Barr.
If we are close to God, we have no fear because perfect love drives out fear (Jn.
The Commissioner for Women Affairs, Deborah Okah assured the partners that the state would make sure the objectives of establishing the safe space is realised.
Gunmen has shot dead a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Delta State, South-south Nigeria.
The deceased was convicted of kidnapping and under police escort when a gun was pulled close to his head in Prayagraj, also known as Allahabad, BBC reported.
Maybe there is a divine purpose.
He is among five Nigerian journalists that earned grants to tell solution-driven stories for the 2021 Solutions Journalism Network Africa Fellowship.
“The BVAS is working well and accreditation is ongoing,” the official added.
A new report by the International Bar Association (IBA), a global forum of lawyers, has revealed “a dearth of women” in top positions in the legal profession in Nigeria.
Our dream is merely in suspense, a punctuation mark in the book of our unfinished greatness.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that trooping and presentation of colours parade is conducted when retiring the old colours of a regiment/unit and presenting the regiment/unit with a new one.
Tinubu helped restore the country’s democracy in 1999 after fighting military rule and then served two consecutive terms as governor of Lagos,” TIME stated.
According to him, the command has prosecuted and secured the conviction of 25 offenders.
15 killed, burnt beyond recognition in Enugu highway crash
Sometime in 2016, allegations were rife and hyped in the social media.
Shots rang out in the city, and eyewitnesses reported hearing explosions in the capital on Twitter.
This marked the beginning of his troubles which climaxed on Friday with an almost 10-year sentence.
The Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, disclosed this while briefing State House correspondents at the weekly meeting of the council chaired by President Muhammadu Buhari, on Wednesday in Abuja.
Crisis broke out in the party shortly after the poll leading to its factionalisation.
By contrast, I have no quarrel with “Yes Daddy”.
Few lawmakers have served this country for upward of three decades like your good self.
First, facing the army of those who had come to arrest Jesus, armed with dangerous weapons, he fearlessly pulled out his sword and cut off the ear of a very influential member of the crowd, Malcus, High Priest’s slave (Jn.
So far, none of the other aspirants contesting against Mr Abbas has stepped down.
He said his plans for Ohanaeze Ndigbo will include making the body financially self-sufficient, improving the agricultural sector in Igboland, setting up a council of academics in the area of education and generally, ensuring that Igboland becomes an industrial hub.
Earlier in January, the National Union of Air Transport Employees (NUATE) and the Air Transport Services Senior Staff Association (ATSSSAN) directed all the Nigerian Aviation Handling Company Plc (NAHCO) staff to withdraw all services at the airport due to NAHCO’s failure to address their demand for salary increment.
“My husband is a flirt, he runs after anything in skirt.
Accompanying the application is a letter by the plaintiff to the IGP dated 8 May.
"Needless to say, the Minister confirmed that the Data has no verifiable basis," Mr Fashola said.
“There are so many things they have tried to do but everything is okay and easy to manipulate.
“The incident was reported to the Divisional Police Headquarters, Jimeta, by the father of the victims, having observed unusual pains from the kids while urinating,” he stated.
“Sir, I trust that you will bless my aspiration as declared with your active support through appropriate counselling, advices and networking, to ensure that this noble cause sees the light of the day,” he said.
The dual citizenship allegation is the latest in the controversies surrounding Mr Tinubu.
In this particular case, and for the purpose of avoiding a repeat of untoward situations, it is advised that the APC NWC immediately summons the National Executive Committee (NEC)after robust National Caucus/Stakeholders parley to agree on terms that would strengthen our great Party.
Disturbing images of applicants sleeping on floors at the Ikoyi office of JAMB in Lagos had consistently surfaced on the internet, forcing the leadership of NANS to visit the scene and demand immediate resolution.
He said: “The death of this illustrious son of Ogun State, a celebrated jurist and judicial activist, public intellectual and elder statesman, is a severe blow to all of us who knew him
The senators are Abdulaziz Yari (APC-Zamfara), Sani Musa (APC-Niger) and Orji Uzor Kalu (APC-Abia).
Media coverage of Akwa Ibom election created ‘war zone’ image – Governor-elect
“I wouldn’t know the attitude of the ninth Assembly to the request.
“The Transition Committee members would also streamline the State development plan in line with my “Social Charter” with Ndi Enugu.
The former president has returned to Mar-a-lago where he is expected to address the press.
The statement said he is scheduled to return shortly for preparations towards his official swearing-in as the 16th president of the country on 29 May.
The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had declared Mr Adeleke of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as the winner of the election in an upset that deprived Mr Oyetola, the then incumbent governor, a second term in office.
Last Saturday, the social media space, especially Twitter, was awash with controversy over a leaked telephone conversation (now dubbed “Yes Daddy”) between Messrs Obi and Oyedepo.
He said that “I can’t talk about it yet until the IG takes a decision on the matter.”
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the El’Sudi-led faction of the party had announced the expulsion of Messrs Kente and Jimkuta from the party.
The five jurists are expected to give vital answers to questions around the 25 February presidential election.
He noted that WhatsApp provides two-factor authentication so one can further secure the account using a PIN.
“The savings from the fuel subsidy could be used to scale up short-term direct cash transfers to the poorest and most vulnerable groups in the country.
“When you are conducting training for ad hoc staff, give us the opportunity to also participate in coming to assist with the training, particularly as it regards how to mainstream persons with disability in the electoral process.
Benue Gov-elect meets Buhari, says “Benue is in ICU”
He asked the students to report any staff of the institution who frustrate them in the completion of their research works.
“As the immediate past Chair of the Assembly, President Buhari had championed collective efforts by member-states of the Economic Community of Central African States, the ECOWAS, the GGC and their partners to address and prevent piracy.
“Using these verifiable principles, I submit that the housing deficit in Nigeria and most parts of the continent and the world is more pronounced in urban centres than in rural areas,” he said.
However, a range of fundamentally sound stocks with low pricings abound still in the market, which individual investors and portfolio managers could be looking to leverage this week.
— Oby Ezekwesili (@obyezeks) April 3, 2023
The police in Akwa Ibom State, South-south Nigeria, said they have arraigned 29 suspected cultists over their alleged involvement in a deadly clash in Uyo that has left at least four persons dead.
“The truth of the matter is that one of the major problems in the polity today is a section of the media,” he said.
Mr Ubah, who represents Anambra South District in the Senate, spoke when he appeared as a guest on Channels TV’s Politics Today on Monday night.
It noted that the digital switchover which NCC might be capitalising on has not been delivered as expected.
Ms Moeti said today marks the 16th WMD and an appropriate time to take stock of malaria’s devastating impacts on people’s lives and economic development in the African region.
“Here in Katsina, the security forces, particularly the Army, Nigerian Air Force and the Police have taken note of that and are making investigation to ascertain its genuineness and take appropriate action,” he said.
He should explain, for instance, how he has assumed the role of the plaintiff, prosecutor and jury and how he has executed his brand of plea bargaining with suspected criminals and saboteurs of the Nigerian economy and agenda who instead of being put on trial, are walking freely all over Nigeria.
I believe we are all minorities and believe we are all standing together for the common purpose of the overall benefit for us, irrespective of seniority considering the ratio of the alliance.
Speaking at the event, she noted that the reason for writing this book was to preserve history and speak the truth because she is not one to be “cowered by the authority or people in the public sector or easily intimidated or bullied by an office.”
Also, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, has expressed sadness over the death of Mr Enahoro, popularly known as Peter Pan.
NYSC member shot as INEC cancels Reps rerun election in Akwa Ibom
Mr Akpabio said he was grateful to the president for appointing him minister of the Niger Delta Affairs when he lost his re-election to the Senate in 2019.
But an army official at the division, who asked not to be named, claimed Mr Ugwuoke was occupying the quarter illegally.
He said with his accomplishments in the state, Nigeria would need the outgoing Rivers governor in higher capacities.
The court has up to September, the end of a statutory period of 180 days from March when the aggrieved candidates filed their petitions, to give its decision.
“Ododo, having scored the majority of the lawful votes cast at the direct primary election conducted on April 14, 2023, in Kogi, is hereby declared the winner of the APC primary election 2023.
I will continue to keep you apprised of events as they unfold,” he said.
The Commissioner for Environment, Nfon Bassey did not respond to calls and a text message requesting comment from him.
The minister, accompanied by Umaru Shagalinku, the man who started one of the oldest restaurants in Abuja, and some contractors, thanked the President for the privilege of serving in the same position for close to eight years.
He requested that the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) should be directed to mobilise its officers to the affected communities to support survivors of the attacks.
He added that the air component of Operation HADARIN DAJI conducted several air interdiction operations at identified terrorist enclave at Mai Solar in Maru Local Government Area of Zamfara, killing several terrorists in the airstrike.
This is why the urgent task before us is to restore the dignity of the Nigerian nation and her citizens.
“So, we are going to exercise our constitutional rights there,” Mr Yari said.
Thousands more people have been displaced from heavily contested areas within the country.
“However, old habits die hard.
“He appreciated the PSC Chairman for the thoughtfulness in assembling the eggheads for the laudable meeting,” he said.
“These factors combined to cause the spike in November and maintain elevated prices through March,” it said.
Nigeria’s lawyer asked Murray whether Quinn and Cahill were “less than honest” in the way they conducted business.
Mr Irabor said that every commander would wish to have both technical and operational control of his own communications, as well as the capacity to influence those of his adversaries.
When contacted earlier, NAFDAC, in response to inquiries from this newspaper, said efforts were on to subject the product to further investigations in its laboratories but assured the public that such discovery made in Taiwan and Malaysia was yet to be confirmed in the products in Nigerian markets.
Mr Yusuf pleaded to the lawmakers for a one week extension to enable the committee carry out proper investigation of the allegations.
She currently serves at the Asaba Division of the Court of Appeal where she ranks behind Mr Adah as the second most senior judge.
As a demonstration of his commitment to advancing healthcare management in the country, President Muhammadu Buhari will on Friday, May 19, inaugurate the state-of-the-art Presidential/VIP Wing of State House Medical Centre, Abuja.
If you do not report, you are emboldening these criminals, and what happened to you will definitely happen to someone else.
Nigeria introduces new taxes on beer, imported vehicles, plastics
*Abba Mohammed, Ibadan Division (62)
So in my 100 days in office, I envision a House where we will work with the executives to reel out workable policies that translate to the yearnings and aspirations of the Nigerian people.
At the Global Distance Learning Institute, adjacent to the Ministry of Finance in Abuja, parents were seen waiting for their wards who were either in the hall taking the tests or waiting for their turn to take the tests.
For the first time in the history of the country, and also acutely contrasting with simple logic and commonsense, a second runner up in the presidential election 25 February is making a most laughable claim of having won the election.
“That is why I have decided to proceed on self-exile for my own safety.”
The Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) has dissociated itself from the endorsement of Godswill Akpabio for Senate Presidency by the Coalition of Northern groups.
Now, the myth that one cannot commence an action against the government and win has been repudiated.
“Hon Abass is so loved and trusted by his constituents that he has been returned to represent them for the third term in the House.
He described the reports on the different portfolios being assigned to him and published in national dailies as “mere speculations”.
Mr Orji, who presided over the plenary session, announced the immediate suspension of the lawmakers for one month with no benefits.
Those sworn in are Mahmud Kambari (Borno), Esuabana Nko-Asanye (Cross River), Adamu Lamuwa (Gombe), Yakubu Kofarmata (Kano), Olufemi Oloruntola (Ogun) and Richard Pheelangwah (Taraba).
The EFCC asked Mr Akpabio to “personally report” to the anti-graft agency on 9 May.
“But to implicate Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide in personal pecuniary interest is not only unethical, despicable and unscrupulous but, in all ramifications, connotes a criminal intent,” it said of the claims attributed to Ohanaeze.
Among other tools and strategies, the team developed a homegrown 60-day accelerator – our National Action Plans (NAPs) – to implement priority reforms by select Ministries, Departments, and Agencies (MDAs) for each annual reform cycle.
Former vetoing Presidents before him did.
She was sent away to boarding school and only returned for school holidays.
PREMIUM TIMES reported that INEC, at its meeting in Abuja on Tuesday, reached a decision to write to the IGP to demand the probe and prosecution of the embattled REC.
We garnered a handsome amount of votes for Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu.
This we are told is the first of future balkanization of the perimeters of other unity schools across Nigeria.”
Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has arrived in Nairobi, Kenya, where he will speak at the 2023 Mo Ibrahim Governance Weekend (IGW).
It took the intervention of Josephine Ekperobe, secretary of the Presidential Election Petition Court to calm down the tense situation between Messrs Apapa and Osuntokun.
The Nigeria Export Processing Zones Authority (NEPZA) is targeting a $ 22 billion investment from Delta State as a special economic zone.
He is determined as he had stated in his first and only press conference after the election to challenge the outcome of the election and the process has begun.
However, as it always goes, a little tweaking here and there began to appear in the Fuji music scene.
Tinubu didn’t have to score 25 per cent votes in Abuja to be president-elect – INEC
A VISITATION, and the ALLURE of “RECONCILIATION”
The defamed company said a key fallout of the defamatory article came when a United Arab Emirates (UAE)-based company, Aras Group LLC, withdrew a loan facility it was about issuing to Hillcrest Agro-Allied Industries Limited.
A five-member panel of the court led by Haruna Tsammani, gave the assurance on Monday at its inaugural sitting at the headquarters of the Court of Appeal in Abuja.
Meanwhile, Indofoods, an Indonesian company and maker of Indomie instant noodles, has denied the allegations noting that all its noodles are produced with standard certification.
Adesola Sotande-Peters, the company’s finance director at that time, stated that Unilever, which relies on heavy petrochemical importation in the manufacturing of many of its products, required improved dollar supply.
Mr Jejeloye pointed out that the shanties not only constitute health and safety risks to residents in the area but also serve as a haven for criminals who make use of such locations as a hideout.
Mr Rawlings said the defendant assaulted the victim by pushing him from a ladder while performing his lawgul duty, which caused him permanent injury on his right leg.
St. Paul repeats: If there is no resurrection, then Christ has not been raised, if Christ has not been raised, then our faith is in vain and you are still in your sins (1 Cor.
12:05pm: Lateef Fagbemi, APC’s lawyer informs court of his preliminary objection to APP’s petition.
Since 1891, this day has been observed all over the world.
We however know that all these have vapoured out and Sudan, as well as Nigeria, have lost their educational primacy due to persistent bad governance, strife and wars.
He added that the season is a time to pray for peace and promote unity across Nigeria.
The regulatory body made this known in reaction to reports alleging that the commission was involved in tracking and leaking telephone conversations of some Nigerians.
The group said it, on 10 March, obtained a court order restraining a factional president of the group, Chidi Ibeh, a “disowned” chieftain of the Ohanaeze, Richard Ozobu, Mr Isiguzoro and others from parading themselves as its representatives.
(ABUJA, April 12, 2023)
The ongoing construction of the international airport in Ebonyi.
The lower chamber gave the approval on Thursday following the consideration of the report presented by the House Committees on Finance, Banking and Currency and Aids, Loans and Debt Management.
Several police officers and officials of other security agencies in two regions have been killed by gunmen in such attacks.
The Inspector-General of Police, Usman Baba, has met with the Chairman, Police Service Commission (PSC), Ex-IGP Solomon Arase, and retired I-GPs in Abuja to strategise on achieving better policing in Nigeria.
He said though the petitioners complained about outcome of the election in 10 states which include Abia, Anambra, Delta, Ebonyi, Edo, Enugu, Imo, Kano, Plateau and Lagos, he was not declared as the overall winner in any of the states listed.
He urged the police to use the present incident to set an example that this would never be tolerated in Nigeria, a country governed by laws, rules and regulations.
One of them is SAO Agro-Allied Services Limited.
“We need extension services to achieve this,” she said.
“The escapee said he linked up with his crony after escaping from the facility and went into the criminal venture,” the spokesperson for the police added.
“We see it as an answer to our prayer for a regional project that will promote development and regional integration,” Mr Igbifa said.
If a government-to-government agreement is put in place between a partner country, which restricts recruiting organisations to the terms of the agreement, the country is added to the amber list.”
“For over three decades, Carmen Aristegui has been on the forefront of bringing truthful information to the public in Mexico.
However, the report said as price increases affected the entire country, some people living in metropolitan areas began visiting outskirt markets to save money.
The labour unions said after careful deliberation during their emergency joint Central Working Committee (CWC) meeting, they concluded that the state government has “grossly violated the rules of engagement amongst the social partners in industrial relations in the country by using thugs to violently disrupt” the workers day celebration in the state.
Again, the current APC president elect, Bola Ahmed Tinubu didn’t win the election, because the said election, particularly, the presidential election was manipulated and rigged beyond comprehension.
“Also, NIS deployed, with the support of the International Organisation for Migration (IOM), the global Migration Information and Data Analysis System (MIDAS) at five International Airports and 17 Border Crossing Points.
After the meeting, the guests joined the president to observe the afternoon prayers.
“There are so many internal things that police are considering to make sure that barracks are adequately managed because there are rules.
For Akwa United, they defeated their opponent, Kwara United 3-1, however, Dakkada were forced to a 1-1 draw by Enugu Rangers.
*Victim Company M $118,000.00
In a statement issued on Sunday, the Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, said the president’s analysis of the reasons for the opposition’s loss in the 2023 elections is incontrovertible.
About 15 of the bank customers, whom this newspaper learnt had been in the gallery since 5 a.m., were seen taking a nap – seated on the floor, with their back resting on the wall – while waiting hopelessly for ATMs which were not dispensing cash.
Members of the National Economic Council (NEC) including all state governors and some members of the federal cabinet rose from the monthly NEC meeting today with words of commendation and praise for the Chairman of the Council, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo.
Koen Doens, Director-General for International Partnerships (DG INTPA) at the European Commission:
One of the major implications of that was a considerable plunge in new business, the survey said.
“Preliminary investigation revealed that the bags of rice belong to a terrorist kingpin on the watch list of security agents,” he said.
The much-awaited elections, so full of promise have come and gone, well, not yet, some might say.
The country has some of the largest gold reserves in the world.
Mr Ubah, a member of the Young Progressives Party (YPP), said the president-elect ought not to have meddled into the internal affairs of the Senate.
The house had been ransacked.
On election day, the national mood had a sense of an Easter metaphor to it.
• Onyewuchi Ezenwa Francis Imo East
Nigeria also alleged that Quinn, who died in 2015, paid $2,000 to a Nigerian petroleum ministry lawyer, Ibrahim Haske Dikko, in 2012.
NIDCOM Head of Media, Public Relations and Protocols Unit, Abdur-Rahman Balogun, said this in Abuja on Sunday while giving an update on the evacuation exercise.
Out of the registered number, the HNO said 798,810 are males, amounting to 49.25 per cent, while 823,043 are females, which is 50.75 per cent.
Using leaked documents from Pandora Papers, PREMIUM TIMES previously reported that Aranda was incorporated in November 1999 in the British Virgin Islands by Mr Tinubu’s trusted surrogates – Gboyega Oyetola, former governor of Osun State, and friend Eluyemi Eludoyin.
Nine years after the abduction of the students of the Government Girls College, Chibok, Borno State, a group of youths in Nigeria’s northern region have appealed to the President-elect, Bola Tinubu, to prioritise the release of the students who are still held in captivity.
Mr Kehinde added that the 36 chairpersons upheld that the NWC meeting held by Mr Lamidi was nullity.
“I am a strong and committed party man and have stated it categorically clear in other fora that because of my absolute loyalty to the party, and my unflinching respect for party supremacy, my ambition will be predicated only on the condition that the party zones the speakership position to the North-west Zone which is my immediate constituency,” he said
Mrs Dahiru, popularly called Binani, whom Mr Ari illegally announced as winner, has approached a Federal High Court in Abuja to stop INEC from nullifying her announcement as winner of the election.
Besides, according to INEC, Mr Tinubu met the constitutional benchmark of scoring 25 per cent in two thirds of 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory.
In a short reply on Thursday the UK government said they do not comment on individual’s cases.
Many of the evacuated students have only one semester to complete their studies.
“Foreign exchange regulation policy of the government and CBN’s refusal to grant access to forex for importation of the passport booklet………we generate forex from the sale of passport but we do not have access to buy the same booklet and that is a challenge for NIS.
“Nigeria, a signatory to the Convention on International Trade of Endangered Species categorises the scales under absolute prohibition making its importation or trade illegal,” Mr Kolade said.
It is an insult on Benue people including those killed and butchered children, the maimed, raped and abused women and the over two million people living under squalid conditions in Nigeria’s largest Internally Displaced Camps in the state.
“I have summoned the State Commandant to the National Headquarters to face the management team and explain himself in clear terms,” he said.
He may be granted asylum, should his lawyer make a case.
“The appointments and re-appointments are part of the efforts of the vice-chancellor to realign the university’s workforce for inclusiveness and optimal productivity,” he said.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the offices shut were those of the Ministry of Aviation, the Nigeria Airspace Management Agency, the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria and the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority.
Police in Imo State, South-east Nigeria, have charged a man, Solomon Ohadoma, with robbery for seizing his debtor’s phone.
Who is going to take responsibility for this?
He said, “Be rest assured that we will observe the rule of law.”
“In order to facilitate the free movement of people within the ECOWAS region, it will require means to identify oneself away from”home “.
“When the driver of the Jeep alighted from the car, he was holding a side mirror, which had been detached from the vehicle.
If they make any noise to disturb me in Daura, I will leave for the Niger Republic.
‘We also call on the national leadership of our great party to expediently call him to order before he creates confusion in the party.”
She said their family had petitioned the Force Headquarters in Abuja over the incident.
The Court has traveled to Liberia for the second time in less than a month to particularly hear defence witnesses after the Sierra Leonean government did not honor its request to go there.
Then, the party.
The matriarch gave birth to 13 children, including former governor of the state, Mr Ihedioha, although five of them died later.
It is obvious that she is not suffering.
The embattled Resident Electoral Commissioner of INEC in the state, Hudu Ari, on Sunday illegally declared candidate of the All Progressives Congress, Aishatu Dahiru popularly called Binani, as winner of the election while collation of results was still ongoing.
“Our behaviour, maybe, our orientation did not put into high consideration the environment sensitivity in our growing up.”
It added that attacks on Chinese citizens said to be between 100,000 and 200,000 in Nigeria, have become regular occurrences in recent years amid conflicts.
He testified to Mr Ekweremadu’s character as a patriot, god-fearing, philanthropic and progressive citizen who has served Nigetia as deputy senate president on three occasions.
Smallpox has been eradicated and polio is nearly gone.
Two candidates from the South-east have declared interest in the race.
“We are responding to the purported expulsion of David Kente and our Senator-elect for Taraba South Senatorial district, David Jimkuta by the former state chairman, Ibrahim El-Sudi.
Honourable Minister of Information and Culture
Mr Evuti also disclosed that the inoculation exercise for all the intending pilgrims would be conducted from 15 May to 17 May 2023, in line with the procedure for the trip to Saudi Arabia.
For two days, they have been killing themselves,” the statement quoted Chad’s president as saying.
Speaking during his declaration at the Transcorp Hotel in Abuja, Mr Wase stated the now popular Yoruba phrase “emi lokan,” which translates as “it is my turn”.
Displeased with INEC’s result, Mr Oyetola had approached the election petition tribunal in Osogbo, the state capital, to challenge the outcome of the poll.
There have, therefore, been calls by many Nigerians for the APC to ensure religious balance in its choice of presiding officers of the parliament.
Mr Gumel said the police will arrest troublemakers and their sponsors during the supplementary elections.
He said the assailants shot Abubakar Yahaya, the village head, and kidnapped his daughter to an unknown destination.
A representative of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority, Oladipo Adebayo called on Ebonyi residents to ensure the maintenance and protection of the airport’s facilities because it has “opened them to the world”.
“I was informed that on the 12th day of July 2019, a drunk police officer, with the name Afolabi Saka, shot and killed a young man named Ismail Akapo in Badagry, Lagos State,” the letter reads.
“Since then, the DPO, Obalende division, Murphy Salami, has detailed his detectives to be on his trail with a view to arresting him and possibly recovering the deceased’s two legs from him and prosecuting him with his colleagues-in-crime.
He replied: “That is the ruling today and recently, yes.”
The 2022 World Press Freedom Hero award was given to Shireen Abu Akleh, a pioneering figure for women in media in the Middle East and Al Jazeera correspondent who was shot and killed by Israeli forces in May 2022, and El Salvador’s Carlos Dada, co-founder and director of El Faro, one of Latin America’s most prominent online investigative news outlets.
The incident became public Friday when a Twitter user, with the handle, @Omolomo, accused the school of hiring thugs to threaten the minor’s parents, who had gone to the school to report the results of the medical examination.
“World class safety and security equipment and facilities procured and deployed to our airports, recruitment, training, and capacity building for our staff among numerous others,” Mr Sirika said.
The Supreme Court declared the process null and void and reinstated Mr Ladoja in its judgement delivered on 11 November 2006.
This is what I have spent my entire life earning on; this is quite unfair and unfortunate.”
“In line with the law established by the Commission and its mandate in handling issues related to the Promotion of staff, Advancement and Discipline in the state Judiciary, the Jigawa State Shari’a Court Judges Association (JISSJA) commended the Commission for these good design achievement and fully assured their support and cooperation in due course, the association said.
According to him, troops also recovered 797,000 litres of crude oil, 276,000 litres of Automotive Gas Oil, 500 litres of Dual Purpose Kerosine, four pumping machines, 19 vehicles, six motorcycles, one tricycle, eight weapons, and a variety of ammunition.
The House of Representatives has resolved to investigate the alleged diversion of N20 billion through “shady consultancy” by the staff of NNPC Limited.
In Wurno/Rabah Federal Constituency the incumbent Ibrahim Al-Mustapha of APC won with 23,497 votes, while Bello Ambarura of the APC won the Gwadabawa/Illela Federal Constituency seat with 31,374 votes.
*Misitura Bolaji-Yusuf, Asaba Division (63)
The tribunal also dismissed an attempt by the national leadership of the New Nigeria People’s Party through its legal adviser for a change of its counsel.
“The Courts are not helpless when they make orders, deliver judgements and make pronouncements.
Rivers turnout was a shameful 16 per cent, the lowest in the country, despite producing a lot more votes in past elections, which though were criticised as violent and irregular by observers.
“Cloudy atmosphere is expected over the inland states and coastal cities of the South with prospects of morning thunderstorms expected over Ogun, Cross River, Awka Ibom, Rivers and Lagos States.
Man jailed 4 months in Abuja for ‘constituting nuisance’
We promise to be law-abiding inside and outside our country.
The lawmakers resolved that whoever did not vote in the two election cycles held on 25 February and 18 March back to back be deleted from INEC register as non-existing human beings.
His participation in the Presidential Election Petition Court may become a defining milestone in his profile that has little to reference so far in the public space.
Mr Iwuanyanwu hails from Atta, a community in the Ikeduru Local Government Area of Imo State.
Its basic instruction method of Arabic is off-putting to anyone desirous of western-type education while its requirement of male young men to pass through a system of military service is a major setback in its consideration for schooling.
Also on Monday, Mrs Dahiru approached the Federal High Court in Abuja seeking to stop INEC from voiding her illegal declaration as Adamawa governor-elect.
Miffed by the development, Mr Victor assisted the family to petition the IGP who quickly set up a panel to investigate the matter.
Bandits’ activities have also resumed in the eastern part of the state and though the PDP has been using it against the APC government, insisting it is the federal government that has not been serious in the fight against terrorists, voters may refuse to come out to vote especially in areas like Goronyo, Rabah, Wurno, Isa and Sabon Birni where there are recent reported cases of such activities.
He added that they must also be firm and ruthless to criminals who might want to take advantage of the festive period to perpetrate their unholy and criminal acts.
He fired five times, but only two bullets got Anas in the thigh.
He was also until 2019 a PDP member.
There were also situations where the National Economic Council had to advise on very many matters concerning the economy of the country.
An almost not-dissimilar occurrence reared its head when stranded Nigerian students were to be rescued from war-torn Ukraine.
He said to achieve a malaria free region, governments need to mobilise more resources and technical capacities at domestic and international levels and build effective partnerships and multisectoral mechanisms.
“More so, our submission is based on their legislative experience, prudent financial management, fair disposition towards national peace and unity, care for the less privileged, competence, reward for hard work, electoral value and diplomatic relations.
Mr Nwifuru, who is the Ebonyi Governor-elect, said that the governor had put him under severe pressure due to the monumental projects that he would inherit and maintain.
As noted above, having found ownership, dishonesty and liability for the penalty follows automatically.
The protesters carried placards with various inscriptions such as “Pa Fasonranti, please rescue Afenifere”, “Ayo Adebanjo must go,” “Revoke the mandate you gave to Adebanjo,” “Adebanjo, time to step aside,” amongst others.
At the resumed sitting today, Agaba, through his counsel, E.D.
Mrs Ogunsola said the stage performance is aimed at reigniting and promoting the love for culture, moral rebirth and upholding indigenous virtues while telling native African stories.
Governor Wike has declared a public holiday in the state because of Tinubu's visit.
I quietly collected my items and gave it to my friend going to Nigeria.
The applicant further submits that the INEC, being an agency of the government, can have its actions, records, and decisions checked by the court and only a court can nullify the actions of an INEC official and not the INEC itself.
If the region fails to get the Senate presidency, another option will be Speakership, a position the South-east is yet to occupy since the return of democracy, save for when Emeka Ihedioha served in an acting capacity.
“Emeh was transferred to the Anambra State Police Command where is currently facing interrogation.
The questions are more than the answers: What happened?
“42 countries have eliminated malaria, the epidemics of HIV and TB have been pushed back.
FCMB Group, C&I Leasing, Custodian Investment top stock pick this week
The President-elect, Bola Tinubu, and the Vice President-elect, Kashim Shettima, alongside other APC stakeholders on Wednesday visited the Defence House, Maitama, to inspect facilities.
He said Mr Idigbe embodied the ideals of courage, service, justice and fairness.
He was sentenced to 16 years in prison.
Members of the disciplinary committee are Abayomi Kuye (Chairman), Esther Egbi (Secretary), Isiaka Shodiya, M.A Coker, Messrs Kayode Ariwayo, Femi Oluokun and Segun Oriyomi.
Hyacinth Alia, a Roman Catholic priest, won the Benue State governorship election on the ticket of the APC in March.
ABSU however wrote that the position does not however include entitlement to promotion, gratuity or pension.
Mr Sylva secured 52,061 to defeat five other contestants.
Binani, through her lawyer, Hussaini Zakariyau, had sought a judicial review of the administrative decision of INEC on April 16 in respect of her declaration as the winner of the governorship elections held on March 18 and the supplementary poll of April 15.
Mrs Muhammed-Oyebode said that her foundation is determined to work with partners to improve the status of women and girls, prioritising safety, education, and economic opportunity.
PREMIUM TIMES reported how Dele Alake, the special adviser communications to President-elect, Bola Tinubu, said Ms Adichie may face a lawsuit over an allegation she made against the chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Mahmood Yakubu.
However, since the conclusion of the investigation and submission of its report, there has been no information in the public domain to indicate that the allegation has been reported to the commission or the commission investigating the allegations.
According to reports, the recently concluded presidential and national assembly elections and governorship elections in some states witnessed widespread reports of voter suppression, voter intimidation and the destruction or theft of election materials by political party agents and thugs across the six geopolitical zones.
“Yesterday I met with aspirants for the office of the Speaker of Nigeria’s House of Representatives in the coming 10th Assembly.
We are tired of stories, we don’t need PhD, doctorates.
Mr Ohadoma has been freed after spending several weeks in prison.
The governor sympathised with the indigenes of the Uli Community, where the late Mbadinuju hailed from, and the people of the state in general
“… when it comes to announcing target first and trying to string together evidence later but that’s what it goes to you know when you have a guy that runs for office saying I will get Donald Trump it shouldn’t be a surprise that he will string together a flimsy case,” he said as he described Mr Braggs approach.
SERAP said: “A certified true copy of the judgment of 26 November, 2019 by Justice Oguntoyinbo has long been served on Mr Malami.”
“Governor Uzodinma, if he means well for the state, should announce that he won’t be running in the November governorship poll, then set up a reconciliation commission by offering apologies to families of all those killed including security operatives and civilians.
It shows how much he and others in that league have misled the government and Nigerian people in the last inglorious eight years.
Senate extends investigation on NDDC alleged unauthorised transactions
She opted to be more “American” than the real Americans!
He urged the workers to protect and defend Nigeria’s constitutional democracy from politicians.
“The Governor has been subjected to many coordinated media attacks, probes, freezing of state accounts and other punitive measures to frustrate and cripple his administration.
Fintiri’s overwhelming victory is a validation that the will of the people cannot be subdued no matter the plot by a tyrannic, domineering and power-grabbing elements.
This is no witch-hunt — Gbajabiamila
The lawmakers-elect, Ismaila Maihanci, died last month at the age of 37.
There have been at least four attempts to reach a ceasefire agreement between the Sudanese army and the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF) who are fighting for power in the crisis torn country.
“I want that same spirit of justice, equity and fairness to play out in the election of the 10th Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Other states where the incidents often occur include Zamfara, Kebbi and North-central Niger state.
On his view about the leadership of the 10th National Assembly, Mr Doguwa said that as a loyal member of the All Progressives Congress (APC) he would wait for the decision of the party.
His stay in office will still be steeped in uncertainties until the handful of judges that will hear the cases challenging his victory hand down their verdicts.
But we said no, we need to go to places like Sudan where we have millions of Nigerians who migrated there years ago and they have relationships and businesses there.
I am grateful to God, and to all of you who have found me worthy of this recognition.
That was the video being circulated.
He said what mattered to him was that I was no longer the MD of the NPA.”
Police, local security outfits rescue 58 kidnap victims in FCT
In doing this, Peter showed that he was ready to die to stop injustice.
As a prelude to the inauguration, we have seen what is going on.
Mr Lawan said the 9th Senate had performed exceedingly well in terms of the number and quality of bills introduced, passed and assented to.
The future of our country hangs on your deliberations.
“That Barrister Muhammad Bello Shehu of the NNPP, having satisfied the requirements of the law and scored the highest number of votes is declared winner of the election,” the Returning Officer announced.
So the ticket is not all that strong when you look at the religious factor.
I feel it is important that he is released to have access to his medical doctors so that he does not die in prison.”
They had also elected Mr Apugo as the new speaker.
A New York Times analysis revealed that their faces were pixelated, with video-game quality, and their hair appeared unnaturally plastered to the head.
We are also very responsive and responsible government, where it will affect the lives of the people, of course we are going to do it,” he insisted.
The benefitting families thanked the IGP and pledged to make good use of the money, the statement said.
Mr Magashi said the project was a remarkable breakthrough in the technological advancement of communication systems in the armed forces of Nigeria.
In their responses, Obidients disparaged the poet both on social media and on some mainstream media.
The Resident Electoral Commissioner, Hudu Ari, had, on Sunday, declared Mrs Dahiru the winner of the governorship election.
Meanwhile, the amount of each payment is expressed as a percentage of the principal amount of the loan, and it will increase over time.
Police officer detained for allegedly shooting man to death in Delta
In a swift reaction to the agreement, the Chairperson of the NDDC Governing Board, Lauretta Onochie said the MOU was “illegal, null and void”.
I am delighted to congratulate you on your election to the 10th Nigerian National Assembly.
Meanwhile, Mohammed Alao’s freekick for an equaliser went over the bar in the 25th minute.
“Emefiele has committed a crime against humanity, over and beyond even any electoral mago mago (foul play)," Mr Soyinka said.
In my own case, when I was rigged out in the Anambra Gubernatorial election in 2003, he was the first clergyman to publicly tell the President then, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, that I won that election,” Mr Obi said.
Messrs Tambuwal of the PDP and Wamakko of the APC were elected to represent Sokoto South and Sokoto North Senatorial Districts respectively.
He said the arrests and seizures made between January and March this year were part of the command’s efforts towards curbing the scourge through drug demand reduction activities.
In 2008, FAAN said some residents of the Ajao Estate axis of the encroached land, under the aegis of “Runview Cooperative”, approached the agency for regularisation of their stay on the land.
I did not support Peter Obi because he is an Igbo as I am.
The Enugu State Governor-elect, Peter Mbah, also called on Enugu residents to join hands to build the state into a land of collective prosperity, noting that “love and unity were critical elements in moving the state forward.”
Close periods, the interval between when a publicly quoted company completes its financial report and when it is issued to the public, forbid insiders like directors and its major shareholders from trading on the company’s shares.
He said Mr Buhari lacked the power to remove him at will as his office was governed by the Companies and Allied Matters, 2020, the Petroleum Industry Act, 2021, and the company’s Memorandum and Articles of Association.
177789 in respect of Durbar Hotel and nullifying the revocation of the Plaintiff’s title made on the 24/01/2020 and received on the 29/1/2020 during the pendency of this action.
But INEC swiftly nullified the action, concluded the collation on Tuesday and declared Governor Ahmadu Fintiri as the winner of the poll
Then we will now begin to see fallout from the decision and we will now re-strategize and make alignment and realignment until everything is aligned.
What I know is that they did accreditation around 9 a.m. but around 11 a.m., they told us that they were about to start, which means that they did not start on time.”
Nigeria’s second oldest lender Union Bank built a more than two-fold surge in net profit substantially from a strong net trading income in 2022, it’s audited financial report has shown.
Mr Lagbaja reminded the troops that the Armed Forces of Nigeria and the United Nations have zero tolerance for sexual exploitation and abuse.
In March, the Ministry of Trade and Investment wrote Mr Buhari to recommend the dismissal of Ms Umar on account of gross incompetence, ineptitude and poor management of the federal parastatal.
I wrote (this letter to the US president) of course, knowing full well that there will be criticism from certain quarters and I’ve seen a few things people sent to me and it has been kind of amusing to read the juvenile fulmination of non-juvenile people.
Also, with more strategic partners, Africa now has options.
— Elkanah Garang (@yarongarang) April 2, 2023
Also in its reply, the APC prayed the tribunal to dismiss APM’s petition.
Atiku garnered 6,984,520 votes while Mr Obi won 6,101,533 votes.
In the letter dated Sunday April 9, Mr Oke said Ms Adichie’s letter to Joe Biden is “seditious” and a “case of extraterritorial ethnocentric politicking of a non-resident Nigerian-American.” Mr Oke added that “Chimamanda’s letter is most unbecoming” and she went below expectations to pen-down a “seditious letter against the Government and people of Nigeria.”
“I know that many of those struggling for accommodation in the cities have left one form of shelter unused or underutilised in our rural areas.
For reasons not stated in the court document cited by this newspaper, Mr RK changed the family name.
It’s believed that the number of people watching the World Cup in the US was due to the country’s popular team, the USA.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Messrs Gemade and Shija were governorship aspirants at the last primary election that produced Hyacinth Alia as the state governorship candidate.
Despite Sunak’s enthusiasm, the coronation takes place amid a cost of living crisis and public scepticism, particularly among the young, about the role and relevance of the monarchy.
The state chairpersons of the party in Abuja took back the party secretariat which was alleged to have been taken over by thugs who seized and sealed the office on April 6.
Wednesday’s proceedings might witness some hitches in terms of who represents the party at the court.
This eventually leads to the unravelling of secret affairs, which drives the movie to the end.
The APC queried the legal capacity of the party to challenging the mode it adopted in nominating its candidate.
In the verdict, A.S Muhammad, a senior magistrate, said “the defendants had common intention in publishing” the damaging article “and must have intended the natural consequences.”
The charge was consequently, re-assigned to a new judge, Daniel Osaigor, and they were consequently, re-arraigned on 24 January 2022.
Thursday makes Atiku's first appearance at the Presidential Election Petition since its sitting started on Monday.
He said that smallpox has been eradicated and polio was on the brink.
Though the suspects were arrested by the EFCC, the office of the Attorney-General of the Federation is responsible for the extradition proceedings.
When responding to questions on the performance of the 9th Assembly, Ms Onuoha said she disagrees with the assertion that the current assembly has been a rubber stamp to the executive.
This shift, though welcome, has not convinced many African leaders, who remain wary of being used to further American interests.
The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) says it has obtained an order of final forfeiture of some properties linked to Emmanuel Atewe, a retired major-general and former Commander of the Military Joint Task Force, Operation Pulo Shield, in the Niger Delta.
Both are individually challenging the victory of Mr Tinubu at the presidential election petition court, each claiming to be the actual election winner.
So, the witnesses have travelled to Liberia for the hearings.
Their brother, Mr Ohadoma’s bail application was, however, rejected by the magistrate.
According to him, the intervention seeks to massively inject funds into selected tertiary institutions to achieve a major turnaround through programme upgrades and improvement in the teaching and learning environment.
The chairman’s vehicle, a Toyota Prado SUV, and the AK-47 gùn of his police guard were taken away by the kidnappers.
Mr Oyedepo responded “I believe that, I believe that, I believe that,” and Mr Obi on the other side of the phone said: “If this works, you people will never regret the support.”
“Over 90 per cent of purchases are done out of pocket, which is extremely challenging.
Children are at higher risk of the mosquito-borne disease which kills more than 600,000 people each year, according to WHO African Region.
Edem Eniang, a professor of wildlife and head of the centre, brought the peafowls (Pavo cristatus) to Uyo after receiving them from the Conservator General, National Parks Service of Nigeria, Ibrahim Goni in Abuja.
The report stated that 62 people were killed in the Northern part of the state.
“There is also a report that his health is deteriorating.
“Operatives are combing the bush in the area and we assure the public that the victims will be rescued and the criminals will not escape justice,’’ she said.
54, seeking to oblige a President (or Governor) to present an annual State of the Nation Address to the National Assembly.
At current market value, Mr Otedola’s investment in Transcorp by way of equity now stands at over N6.3 billion.
The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Saturday declared him as the winner of the supplementary election for the Tudun-Wada,/Doguwa constituency.
He said the committees were constituted in accordance with section 14 of the association’s constitution, and ratified by the National Executive Council (NEC) in its quarterly meeting held on 23 March.
The president-elect has hitherto promised to hit the ground running and the visit is reflective of his commitment to the promise as he has already begun talks with global actors in the important areas of the economy and security.
“It is hoped that with your support, the incoming administration will do better in line with the developmental blueprint of our political party.
This is because there are reports that some churches and mosques generate humongous funds without paying taxes to the government.
“As much as I sympathised with the residents of Ayetoro community over the loss of properties and businesses, I appeal to them to accept resettlement from the area, pending when the governments will do the needful,” Mr Ojatuwase said.
“The question we are facing is whether in the years ahead we have more freedom or less freedom.
Policymakers have taken forceful actions to stabilize the banking system.
Those predictions have now become a reality in many ways.
No, Punch should stop living in denial.
Just a WhatsApp message on this line and I am with you.
After the hearing, three of Teixeira’s family members left the courthouse, with a group of reporters trailing them for several blocks.
“The lawmaker was charged with criminal conspiracy, culpable homicide, causing grievous hurt, and mischief by fire, inciting disturbance,” the police spokesperson Abdullahi Kiyawa, said.
She said that it has also become extremely difficult for passport to be processed across the country, in the immigration offices especially Lagos, Abuja and Port Harcourt .
Daniel Ishaku, another local in the area, told The Associated Press the terrorists rounded up the village of their targets and waylaid some locals returning from a ceremony in the area.
The kidnappers have established contact with the student's family.
There are losses of revenue from that.
His arrest will instill fear in all the journalists who have fled the country, seeking safety in exile,” said CPJ’s sub-Saharan Africa representative, Muthoki Mumo.
Mr Tinubu, who is the president-elect, popularised the phrase during an emotion-laden speech in Ogun State shortly before the APC presidential primary election last year.
12:21pm: Obiora Ifoh, Labour Party’s national publicity secretary, announces self as LP’s representative.
The Inspector General (I-G) of Police had accused them of forging a Supreme Court judgment and the letterhead paper of retired Justice Mary Peter-Odili.
Sudan had been witnessing deadly armed clashes between the Sudanese Army and the RSF in Khartoum and other areas since 15 April.
A witness who spoke to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on the condition of anonymity said the vehicles collided while at high speed.
As we look forward to formulating impactful policies for the growth of our nation, I implore us all to bear in mind that all back home will see the results of our stay at the Assembly, thus the need to come together to build a nation where peace and justice shall reign
He said the gunmen invaded the community from a nearby bush and began shooting indiscriminately killing eight people in the process.
There are 176,974 polling units in Nigeria and infractions and violence were recorded in less than one per cent of these units,” he said.
“You are talking about fairness and justice when you didn’t even vote for the APC during the 2023 general election.
Mrs Buhari said this on Monday when she hosted members of the diplomatic community and some Nigerian women to commemorate the end of the 2023 Ramadan period in Abuja.
You have to be loyal to your country first.
The government had suspended the operations of the RTEAN in September and constituted a 35-man caretaker committee to take over the operations of the union.
“With the ability to travel 280km at full charge, taking into account our unique travel times in Lagos, our electric buses are a game-changer.
The investigation followed a 2015 petition by Concerned Kano State Workers and Pensioners, who alleged that Mr Kwankwaso violated the Kano State Pension and Gratuity Law of 2007 in the management of pension remittances amounting to about N10 billion contributed between 2011 and 2015.
They are kidnappers,” a voice was heard speaking in the background of the clip.
In a nutshell, the presidency’s statement is the height of recklessness and gross insensitivity against the people of Benue.
“He not only supported but funded some other altruistic projects and promoted research and scholarship through his establishment of an Islamic co-educational institution, Crescent University, in Nigeria in 2005, and he served as the Chairman of the Board of Trustees of Muslim Ummah of South West Nigeria (MUSWEN).
The death was confirmed to PREMIUM TIMES by the relative of the deceased, Mr Habu Haruna, on Saturday afternoon in Jalingo the Taraba State capital.
“We must try to avoid the erosion of our topsoil to stormwater, we have to plant trees, build catchments to harvest rainwater and ensure our drainages are free,” he said.
Mr Tsammani noted that the court “will look at the substance of the case(s) rather than unnecessary technical arguments, so that everyone that leaves here will be satisfied that justice has been done.”
Mr. Nami, who received the award at the Monarch Event Centre, Lagos, on Saturday, was described by the President of the Institute, Tijani Musa Isa, as an unassuming and humble achiever who has led the FIRS to excel in the international tax circle despite global economic challenges.
The king and queen left Buckingham Palace for the abbey in the modern, black Diamond State Jubilee Coach accompanied by cavalrymen wearing shining breastplates and plumed helmets.
There must be a deliberate and appropriate investment in the improvement of the welfare of all security agencies particularly the Police, and adequately equipping them to function effectively and efficiently.
The fraudster, widely known for his opulent lifestyle which he flaunted on social media, was also ordered to make $1.7 million restitution to the victims of his crimes.f
He said the scheme had also broadened the horizon of citizens, promoted civic responsiveness, created a better understanding of various individual and ethnic identities and their diversities and underscored the bottom line of the shared values of fairness, justice, peace and unity.
“And the reason is 95 per cent is not government owned 95 per cent is owned by entrepreneurs.
“They are by the dint of this communique directed to immediately effect withdrawal of the matter from court and return to the path of rectitude for due process,’’ he said.
Mr Lukman said the APC handed over funds to prosecute the campaign for the election to Mr Omisore, a former deputy governor of the state, but that he mismanaged it.
Mr RK’s marriage in the UK broke down in September, which led his wife to leave the house with their child.
He noted that Mrs Adichie also based her opinion on the outcome of the election on “flawed opinion polls” conducted before the 25 February election.
He was re-arrested in Kenya and brought back to Nigeria in June 2021, about four years after he fled the country.
According to him, “the things we do locally at our immediate environment have one or two impacts on the global environment and when the global environment is highly deteriorated, definitely, it will affect the individual.”
“They should especially the Police, as matter urgency; intensify their investigations in unearthing the circumstances surrounding any attack on Nigerian journalists.
Mr Dada attributed the success of the anti-corruption campaign in Hong Kong to the country’s anti-corruption agency’s independence from political interference and separation from the police force and the civil service.
But Nigeria never provided the promised gas, and the plant was never built.
Go and look in the history of this country and ask yourself how many people have been opportune to serve privately and publicly and surround themselves with Nigerians.
The choice of the minority can take the place of the decision of the majority.
The lawyer said that the clarification became necessary to let the Nigerian public know the truth.
You don’t know what we went through.
When PREMIUM TIMES visited the National Hospital, Abuja, patients were being attended to by nurses, consultant doctors and corps members.
But Mr Benjamin said he was sure that every candidate willing to register for the direct entry application would be allowed to do so.
“This is another essential reason for setting up this media team, to harness the power of the watchdog to spread the word on nutrition and increase the outcomes thereof,” he said.
“We acknowledge the fact that many Nigerian workers continue to face significant challenges, including low take home pay, lack of job security, and unsatisfactory working conditions.
“I believe that we are ready to ensure that this special economic zone works for all,” Mr Okowa said.
I come prepared financially, technically, educationally and competence-wise.
It is also expected that millions of farmers supplying local inputs such as grains to the sector may lose their livelihoods, risk of decline in profitability and shareholder value and elevated risk of smuggling of the products.
It is when the EFCC Chair does this and becomes open, non-selective and all-embracing with his invitation, that will we take him seriously.
“Drug abuse, criminality, insecurity we know that is exactly what is affecting us in the country, as we speak that is our major problem.
“We commend the petitioners for doing the right thing.
The Nigerian government on Wednesday said only 463 (1.8 per cent) out of 25,380 Primary Healthcare Centres (PHC) in the country possess the required number of Skilled Birth Attendants (SBAs).
The committee had pointed out that there was no specific description of what was done in the contracts and they were couched in a manner that they would be hard to track.
According to the prosecution, the accused persons and others at large committed the offence opposite Odopo Town Hall, along Ijoka Road, in Akure.
Mr Fintiri particularly commended the institutional capacity of INEC at the election, especially its use of new technology in the conduct of the exercise.
This was contained in a statement by the university’s spokesperson, Jamilu Magaji.
IPOB also asked residents of the South-east to stop observing the suspended Monday sit-at-home in the region.
Mr Ajibola, who was also a former Attorney-General of Nigeria, died at age 89 after an illness associated with old age, the family said.
“To set the record straight, no such visit or meeting took place let alone the compilation of any purported list of collation and returning officers,” Mr Okoye stated in the statement.
Mr Obi, who was the presidential candidate of the Labour Party, came third in the 25 February presidential election.
The Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika, has again, assured that the indigenous airline, Nigeria Air, would take off on or before 29 May.
Mr Ogwo said the victim, a national diploma student, was abducted while on his way to school from his residence in Emene, a community in Enugu East Local Government Area of the state.
It has a very huge hungry population and out-of-school children in the world.
In their preliminary objection filed by their counsel, Mr Emodamori, the defendants prayed the court to decline jurisdiction and strike out the charges against them.
A witnesses, who did not want his name in print, said that three people died on the spot, while others sustained varying degrees of injuries.
Mr Dimgba stressed that neither a State House of Assembly nor auditor- general of a state “preclude” the commission from performing its mandate as contained in the constitution.
“When we started the registration, the offices were nearly empty, and candidates were not coming.
“In all, most of you did well, but some of your colleagues lost their lives in the hands of members of your own groups.
The forum presents an opportunity for robust multi-stakeholder interactive sessions to explore business opportunities and discuss critical issues targeted at resolving the multi-faceted problems bedevilling Nigeria’s animal feed sector.
Mr Buhari urged those mourning the demise of this compatriot to reflect on his contributions to the country and build on the many honours credited to him for journalistic excellence.
“We have tried as much as possible to eliminate third parties so that if you really want, you can process the application of your passport from the comfort of your room on your laptop, android phone, and you can pay online.
The layoffs would affect 3.5 per cent of the company’s 20,000-strong workforce
Since 2006, the government has attempted to end the discrimination by pronouncing and constituting committees to look into the matter.
But the hospital management has denied any wrongdoing, saying it is doing its best to give proper care to the infected.
“Some of them think the medical personnel want to use their children’s stool for ‘juju’.
“The division among Nigerians resulting from religious, tribal and ethnic sentiments is a narrative we must all work together to change for the country to move forward.
He informed the lawmakers that the lack of forex has affected the production of booklets.
The magistrate sentenced the journalists to two months imprisonment with an option of N40,000 fine on one of the two counts preferred against them – the offence of conspiracy.
ANALYSIS: Cloning Nigerian banks’ social media accounts, internet fraudsters fleece unsuspecting customers
He reiterated that the earth day was designed to remind people of an only planet and that all lives were intertwined, saying through cooperation, knowledge-sharing, experience and best practices could people overcome significant challenges at the doorstep.
The father was charged and remanded on bail with conditions which included a qualifying (electronically-monitored) curfew.
APC wins Kaduna Assembly seat
Emeka Onyemaechi Ozoani, SAN – CHAIRMAN
“INEC, suspecting cyberattack, withheld the uploading of the results in order to preserve the integrity of the data,” the minister was quoted as saying by the government-owned News Agency of Nigeria (NAN).
The suspect also claimed that he stepped out to get a few things done, but that while coming back to the house, he heard the child crying and he decided to check on her; but to his shock, he saw the child in a pool of her own blood, with a lot of tears in her vagina, which left him bewildered.
The Champions League Final has been regarded as one of the most popular events in the world.
Commending the council for the successful implementation of reforms over the years, the VP noted that “we must all remember that success births success.
Mr Saidu said the unions would begin a full-scale strike if their demands were not addressed.
Senate President and Chairman, 9th National Assembly,
“And the concrete alone without the tension cannot cope with the pressure.
The Punch newspaper reported that the “casualty” was a commercial driver.
It is streaming on Netflix.
2023 Polls: Why opposition lost – Buhari
A 45-year-old woman, Karima Nuhu, on Tuesday sued her husband, Musa Falalu, at a Shari’a Court sitting in Rigasa, Kaduna, for allegedly failing to take her to Saudi Arabia.
If summits help attract investment and diversify both economies and development partners, they can deliver major value.
Godswill Akpabio knows that Stephen Ntukekpo did not win the congress.
Mr Ari had earlier adjourned the collation to 11 a.m. Sunday but announced the winner an hour before the scheduled time.
In October 2014, some months after completing his tenure as the NBA president, Mr Wali was abducted near Port Harcourt and was held for days in captivity before he was released.
For March 2023, it said the gross revenue available from the Value Added Tax (VAT) was N218.786 billion, a figure lower than the N240.799 billion available in February 2023 by N22.013 billion.
“So, there are several things that we’re still planning and working on, some we can start executing quickly, some are more medium-term implementation.”
So, it is too much a power for the commission who is not a Catholic like I am for any reason of a mismanagement of the incorporated trustees of the Roman Catholic church to remove the archbishop as a trustee and appoint whoever it wants.
The non-governmental organisation explains that the creation of the fund was a reaction to the eroding advertising-based business model.
He expressed appreciation to Mr Tinubu for agreeing to visit Rivers State and perform the commissioning.
Uten Efu, chairman of APC in Kente Ward in Wukari Local Government Area, denied signing any petition for the suspension and the expulsion of Mr Kente.
“It is also our intention to use this forum to highlight available investment opportunities in the industry, in order to attract prospective investors, who are desirous of making great returns on their investments,” he said.
Fashola speaks on Tinubu’s alleged dual citizenship
He, however, did not mention the court where the suspect was arraigned.
But there was also the new, including an anthem composed by Andrew Lloyd Webber, famed for his West End and Broadway theatre shows, and a gospel choir.
This is to sensitise them that those provisions of CAMA are no longer applicable to them because a court of competent jurisdiction has set them aside.
“There is a strong link between the formal and informal workforce in Osun State.
A grateful admirer pays a poetic tribute to business tycoon, Globacom founder, Chief Mike Agbolade Adenuga at 70
I am not running to be compensated with the Leader of the House or be chief whip or deputy whip.
Meanwhile, the electoral body said it had decided to write the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Usman Baba, requesting to probe and prosecute Mr Ari for his conduct.
“On the issue of interim government, it is rather unfortunate.
Like Pilate, they rise on the throne, wash their hands and return to the shadows, afraid to speak justice, and turn a blind eye to the truth (Mt.
The 2021 final in the US was also highly watched.
One attack was perpetrated by an unknown individual or group.
The trouble escalated on Wednesday shortly after the court adjourned proceedings for the day.
Mr Buhari, however, charged members of the council to harness the potential of Nigeria’s young and innovative population in creating innovative solutions to the challenges of the nation and the continent.
“It was horrible.
He said the slain officer was serving at Orji Police Divisional Headquarters in the state before the unfortunate incident.
Company Executive, One Other Convicted for Fraud in Maiduguri
Also, there are members of the current House that failed to return to the House in the coalition.
She said her husband suffers from diabetes and that the sickness was already taking a toll on the family’s finances.
The evacuation efforts of the FG are primarily coordinated by NiDCOM and the Foreign Affairs Ministry in conjunction with Dangote Foundation and MTN Foundation, among others.
Thus, albeit in a different vein, any notion of Reconciliation, or even relations – positive, negative or indifferent – with such a spectral emanation is simply grasping at empty air.
After what looked like an eternity’s delay, the Nigerian government, according to Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffery Onyeama, said it had voted the sum of $1.2 million for the evacuation of the stranded Nigerians from the conflict-prone country.
Mr Ghebreyesus noted that almost 90 per cent fewer Mpox cases were reported in the past three months compared with cases in the same duration.
“Our support for the candidature of Senator Godswill Akpabio from the South as Senate President and Senator Barau Jibril from the North as Deputy Senate President indeed is to strike the needed political balance, ethnicity and religious diversity of Nigeria as one indivisible nation.”
Workers Day: Buhari, governors commend Nigerian workers, assure of more commitments to welfare, rights
“He told me that he lost his job as a driver but had secured another one in Saudi Arabia, urging me to be patient while promising to take me along.
“The bizarre response by INEC, which is an umpire that ought to be independent, to the Petition of the PDP and our Candidate, Atiku Abubakar, requesting for the dismissal of our petition, is further evidence of the complicity, corruption and compromise of INEC by the APC.
How are you competing?
Mr Otedola comes next to UBA Nominees Limited in the ownership order of the conglomerate.
Referencing section 94 of the ACJA and section 32 of the Terrorism Prevention Amendment Act 2013, the government argued that the Federal High Court was clothed with adequate jurisdiction to hear the case against the separatist leader.
Mr Tinubu, who will be sworn in as the president of Nigeria on 29 May, in his message to the monarch, said a strong bilateral relationship between Nigeria and Britain is in the interests of the two countries.
The reimbursements are for road projects executed by the state governments on behalf of the federal government.
Mr Braji said the suspects comprised 206 males and 12 females, adding that the figure represents drug dealers and users.
“The committee called on Members of the minority caucus who are interested in the speakership or Deputy Speaker position to step forward.
Taking these steps would advance the right of Nigerians to restitution, compensation and guarantee of non-repetition and improve public confidence in the fight against corruption, and related crimes, especially in the oil sector.
“We are still journeying on towards the 13th of June and we believe that it is important to call ourselves together and to invite our chairman and members of the committee to come and tete-a-tete with us, guide us, advise us and direct us where necessary as we journey to the 13th of June, 2023,” he said
The Max Air aircraft has been towed away, runway has been swept, inspected & certified.
Mr Oriola received the fellowship alongside his colleague Kisha Supernant, an archaeologist also from the University of Alberta’s Faculty of Arts.
We are seeing different powers rising, tensions, camps being formed – so where exactly is Africa’s place here?
Speaking to PREMIUM TIMES, the Founder of The Unbroken Foundation- a non-governmental organisation focused on social and human rights, Sonia Obi-Okodo, said her organisation, in collaboration with the Inclusive Social Welfare and Empowerment Foundation, is following up on the case.
[PHOTO CREDIT: Official Web page of DMO]“Considering reports that the next administration may inherit a total public debt stock of about N77 trillion, the estimated figure can be expected only if the Ways and Means Advances from the Central Bank of Nigeria are securitized,” she said.
The petitioners insisted they won the election, faulting the decision of the state assembly collation officer, Faith Efosa Oviasogie, a professor, to cancel the result of the entire ward.
Although the two are yet to publicly declare interest in the race, some persons outside the region are already making a case for them.
“IPOB is a terrorist organisation so declared by the Nigerian Government, yet some Western countries harbour them and have been dealing with the illegal body."
“Prince Ajibola will be remembered for his patriotism and love for Nigeria and his countrymen and women regardless of their ethnic origin or religious persuasions.
Kogi APC governorship aspirants ask court to nullify primary election
Murray, who at the time worked as a consultant for ICIL in Nigeria’s capital, Abuja, testified that he scanned and emailed them to P&ID colleagues abroad before deleting the messages and shredding the paper copies.
“If this sale of the primary spectrum allocated to broadcasting is allowed to happen, all television stations operating on frequency 600MHz will be affected negatively.
“Poor and socio-economically vulnerable Nigerians have continued to pay the price for the stealing of the country’s oil wealth apparently by both state and non-state actors.
LET THE PEOPLE OF BENUE SPEAK FOR THEMSELVES TOO
*Five (5) gold bracelets and two (2) gold bracelet keys
“The opposition supporters are going after Prof Wole Soyinka & the ruling party supporters are going after Chimamanda Adichie;The great literary giants are now in the ring of Nigeria’s political battle.This is a positive development other African countries are not privileged to have.”
I was approached by my friend, Lukman, who told me he had a pair of legs to sell.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Defence House will serve as the official operational base of the President-elect till 29 May when he will be inaugurated as the country’s 16th democratically elected president.
“NNPC will continue to leverage our partnerships with the Industry, Government, Research Institutions and Academia to ensure energy security and sustainability,” he said.
While repeatedly addressing the cleric as “daddy”, the LP standard-bearer told Mr Oyedepo that the just concluded presidential election was a “religious war.”
“This invitation from the police, I will honour it,” he said, claiming he never went into hiding.
The Managing Director, FHA, Gbenga Ashafa, described the project as a manifestation of the president’s visionary and deliberate housing policy.
The Supreme Court on Tuesday settled the dispute over the governorship election, affirming Mr Adeleke as governor of the state.
Any plan to evade rendering accounts is neither in the interest of accountability, transparency and anti-corruption, which President Buhari had championed in government, nor in the interest of an unencumbered take-off of the incoming administration.
The Judge gave the Order, following a motion ex parte filed and argued by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC.
“Often operating informally in small groups as contractors registered to clearing-house companies, they speak local languages and can stay for years at a time living in remote areas that western companies consider off-limits,” it said.
Ibrahim Gaya, a resident in Port Harcourt, said he lost over N160,000 to a fake UBA customer care on Twitter.
“This administration is yours.
Young Nigerian entrepreneur to speak at UN event
Meanwhile, Mr Tinubu is expected to be in Rivers on 3 May to commission some projects constructed by the Rivers State Government.
It read in part: “Countries on the list should not be actively targeted for recruitment by health and social care employers, recruitment organisations, agencies, collaborations, or contracting bodies unless there is a government-to-government agreement in place to allow managed recruitment undertaken strictly in compliance with the terms of that agreement.
A staffer of the plantation also confirmed the destruction of parts of the plantation, particularly the one in the Eastern Obolo.
He had his strengths and his weaknesses, and applied the former and mitigated against the latter to achieve his overarching goal: to leave Nigeria a better place than he found it.
The president inaugurated NA 2050 before the commencement of the meeting of the Federal Executive Council at the Council Chamber.
When asked if she had any winess to present in court, she simply said she doesn’t.
The former governor died at the age of 78.
He, however, pleaded not guilty to the charges.
But the APM, among other opposition political parties with their presidential candidates, is urging the court to nullify Mr Tinubu’s victory on account of “his non-qualification as a candidate of” the APC.
The coalition, in a statement issued on Thursday in Abuja and jointly signed by Usman Kumo (APC, Gombe) and Kingsley Chinda (PDP, Rivers), said the lawmakers are committed to presenting a united front that will help the incoming administration of Bola Tinubu.
The terrorists also called bandits kill, maim and kidnap for ransom despite the efforts of the government to tame them over the years.
“As far as I am concerned, as far as the institution of the National Assembly is concerned.
Any security or government official that said we’re lying should come to our town and we’ll show him evidence,” he said.
The coalition, which comprises about 29 civil society organisations, asked the police authorities to immediately release the corps member or charge him to court, if he was found guilty of any crime.
In an evolving market, we must continuously have the conviction to adapt our strategy in order to make our vision a reality.
“A lady emerged from nowhere and shouted at the top of her voice that she knows me and trying to disclose my identity.
The town had also been embroiled in a crisis within the Muslim community over the position of Chief Imam.
“They travelled round, we talked about seeing governors.
A 44- year-old woman, Oluwatoyin Falade, on Wednesday, asked an Orile Agege Customary Court to dissolve her 11-year-old marriage on grounds of infidelity on the part of her husband, Segun.
The PDP spokesperson said it was absurd that Mr Ari declared Mrs Dahiru without figures, adding that it was a violation of the country’s constitution.
“IPAC is strongly determined to stop the dastardly do-or-die politics, garrison politics, ethno-religious profiling and stomach infrastructure that have impeded our hard-earned democracy and impoverished the masses who sold their votes for a mess of electoral porridge.”
He also submitted that, given the different charges, the pardon granted in the previous charge did not apply to this case.
“The action of the mob, being a violation of the law of the country and of the University regulations, has been reported to the police who have commenced investigations,” he said.
Mr Shuaib made this known during the “Close-out and Dissemination of the Strengthening Demand for PHC Services in Nigeria Project Findings” in Abuja on Wednesday.
People from the community said some of their members are still missing,” the military source told PREMIUM TIMES.
Labour Party state chairpersons say they did not sack Julius Abure as chairman of the party, insisting that he (Abure) remains the recognised National Chairman of the Labour Party (LP).
“I put a telephone call through to the Minister, who admitted to the preface but said it was prepared by aides, and the pressure of work did not allow sufficient vetting,” he said.
”That Nigeria is no longer operating at a local scale in terms of the observance and promotion of human rights, but indeed upscaling its international observance to international best practices as far as the human rights, promotion and protection of human rights is concerned.
Onuoha: I would also like to bring to your notice that the 100 women’s lobby groups and over 5,000 support groups have severally come on air to support my aspiration.
Naira fell on the official market to trade at N463.25 per $1 on Tuesday.
He said that the forum would receive seven governors-elect including, Umo Eno of Akwa Ibom, Peter Mbah of Enugu State, and Agbu Kefas of Taraba State.
PREMIUM TIMES reported how he was arrested by the London Metropolitan Police alongside his wife and charged with conspiracy to traffic a child to the UK in order to harvest organs.
The lawmakers are probing the accruals and utilisation of funds in the Universal Service Provision Fund (USPF).
The state Commissioner for Information, Culture and Tourism, Wasiu Olatubosun, made this known in a statement on Wednesday in Ibadan.
The Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) has asked the House of Representatives to approve its budgets for 2021 and 2022—after spending the funds for the financial cycles.
Miriam Onuoha, a member of the House of Representatives from Imo State, has officially declared interest in contesting the speakership election.
“Over the years we’ve had to make hard decisions to ensure we were setting the company up to deliver on our vision, and I’m sharing one of those decisions today.
Royal FrieslandCampina NV, the parent company, highlighted an exchange rate loss of €63 million (N30.9 billion at N490.4/€1) in its Nigerian operation in its 2022 financial statement.
“I have shared this story to illustrate a point that I think is hugely important, which is that prejudice and bias are natural aspects of human nature,” he said.
In arguing their case in their final written address, their laywer argued that the Nigerian Supreme Court had “decriminalised” defamation.
Coach Nduka Ugbade has assembled talents primarily from secondary schools and academies across Nigeria
Rest In Peace, Murphy Afolabi 🥲🥲🥲!
Meanwhile, a similar request, among which include the inquiry into the crimes committed by the “impersonator” that led to Mr Obi’s detention as well as his current access status to the UK, which were forwarded to Mr Onifade, were left unanswered as of the time of filing this report.
The World Bank report highlighted the potential benefits of migration for low-skilled workers.
They have upgraded and become agents.
Just like our democracy is evolving.
Mr Ogbonnia said it is only when the majority of Imeobi members fail to endorse Mr Iwuanyanwu on Sunday that an election will be conducted to elect a new president-general.
Only 68 per cent of respondents, according to the report, “said that they monitor gender representation overall and at a senior level.”
Giving the grounds why the motion should be granted, Binani stated that after the collation of results, INEC declared her as the winner of the elections but the PDP and its candidate, Governor Fintiri, resorted to fighting and causing a public disturbance which led to the beating and manhandling of an INEC staffer.
The police warned criminals in the state to surrender or leave the state.
The collaboration between UNICEF, partners, and donors aims to strengthen primary healthcare services and aligns with the revitalisation agenda set by NPHCDA,” he said.
Meanwhile, Mrs Dahiru whom Mr Ari illegally declared winner has approached a Federal High Court in Abuja to stop INEC from nullifying the illegal declaration.
It is a piece that does little credit to the image and reputation of a leading Nigerian thinker who ought to be a voice of truth and reason in a time when passions run high and truth is almost indistinguishable from falsehood, in a situation in which many people are heavily emotionally invested in an election which, unfortunately, has not gone the way they expected.
The assailants shot Abubakar Yahaya, the village head, and kidnapped his daughter to an unknown destination.
By that time, Mr Ararume had been performing the roles of his office for months, and was only waiting for official inauguration to office.
Earlier, NLC Gombe State Chapter chairman, Yusuf Bello, said the theme of the day was apt in view of the numerous challenges being faced by Nigerian workers such as poor remuneration, non-payment of gratuities, death benefits, cash crunch and fuel scarcity.
“I happily congratulate Nigerian workers on this August occasion of May Day.
The Nigerians arrived at the Egyptian border but were not let into Egypt by the authorities there.
Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commissioner (INEC), Mahmood Yakubu, immediately ordered suspension of the collation of results and summoned the REC to the commission’s office in Abuja.
He also thanked the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Olukayode Ariwoola, for approving an emergency fund to support the court in the assignment.
The inauguration preceded the Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting and had members of the Digital Innovation Council in attendance.
He messaged a UBA Facebook page and received an instant response.
Herbert Wigwe, the incoming President, is a seasoned banker and a prominent figure in the Nigerian banking sector.
The images of the pastor showing him welding an AK-47 rifle on the church pulpit caused a stir with many commentators expressing safety concerns about the pastor’s action.
The judge of the US District Court for Northern Illinois, Gettleman, accepted the plea agreement in a ruling on 6 April.
"I demand that the EFCC chair extend similar invitations to officers of the Presidency and members of the Federal Executive Council..."
We need to get the electorate to understand that whatever you take from politicians, the system has a way to take it back from you.
Her fortitude has gained her widespread respect and inspired a generation as a prominent female investigative reporter in Mexico’s male-dominated media industry.
Multiple calls and text messages put across to the spokesperson of the Ministry of Finance, Tanko Abdullah, were not responded to as of press time Wednesday morning.
The traditional ruler of the town, the Onipokia of Ipokia, Yisa Olaniyan, confirmed to journalists that a suspect had been arrested and handed over to the police.
Another innovation was a limited partnership.
“It should be considered that this is the first time that Ekweremadu will be facing this crime.
The letter was copied to the President-elect, Bola Tinubu, the Progressives Governors Forum(PGF) and the National Working Committee (NWC) members.
Mr Yari is a Muslim from the North-west of Nigeria.
Like other states in Nigeria’s south-east, security has deteriorated in Imo State with frequent attacks by armed persons.
Ms Nwakanma, an associate professor at the Michael Okpara University of Agriculture, Umudike, said many species of plants and animals live in the environment, but their well-being were being threatened by human activities.
In a video of the incident seen by this reporter, the rep-elect and the activist exchanged abusive words such as “stupid” and “foolish”.
“He was the first governor to appoint a female as his deputy; he is also the first person to appoint a woman as a Chief Judge of a state.’
He also endorsed Tajudeen Abbas (North-west) and Ben Kalu (South-east) for House Speaker and Deputy Speaker respectively.
There are two types of Mpox virus: Clade I and Clade II.
“Research so far has shown that in the most expensive senario, one truck will cost $1.5 million and at CBN rate, it will be about N690 Million excluding logistics & training,” he wrote.
Whenever we were in meeting, he talked to people gently.”
Official data shows that at the bottom of the list is Imo State with 478,652 total votes; Kogi with 476,038 votes, Enugu – 468,891 votes, Cross River – 416,968, Yobe – 397,331, Abia – 381,683, Ebonyi – 337,341, and Ekiti – 314,472.
“Please avoid Nwaniba; it’s not safe,” she had written about four minutes before her cry for help.
But Atiku accused INEC and Mr Tinubu of fraud and substantial non-compliance with the provisions of the Electoral Act and the constitution during the conduct of the 25 February election.
Baba is one of the few remaining disciples of our late sage, Chief Obafemi Awolowo.
“Their appointments take effect from 27th April, 2023,” the university’s spokesperson said, adding that “The new appointees are charged to bring to bear their wealth of experience in the discharge of their duties and responsibilities.”
It can credibly be argued that Nigeria’s democracy is positively growing as we have had 24 years of civil rule uninterrupted by the military interventions that had hitherto been so detrimental to the country’s political development.
WFP is the world’s largest humanitarian organisation, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.
Woodberry agreed to make the restitution and surrender the luxury assets in a plea agreement he signed with the US government earlier this April.
Mr Yari says he will not withdraw from the Senate presidency race in spite of the APC announcing its preference of candidates
In 2021, my father impregnated me and took me to a clinic where they aborted the pregnancy I had for him.
Mr Maihanchi was a member of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).
Although he doesn’t have a feature with any trending Afrobeat artiste, the Fuji musician has released over 40 studio albums and has embraced technology to put most of these albums out for lovers of music.
Panellists and other speakers at the programme include Akintunde Babatunde, the Anglophone Africa coordinator, Open Climate Reporting Initiative, The Centre for Investigative Journalism; Famara Fofana, Media and Communications professional, School of Journalism and Digital Media, University of the Gambia; and Sloan Zhu, Analyst, Trygg Mat Tracking.
The prosecution in counts 8 to 13 accused Messrs Idiong and Mohammed, Sologic Integrated Services Limited, Vibrant Resource Limited and Helpline Organisation of “taking possession” of the various sums of money totalling N1.84bn when they “reasonably ought to know” that the funds were proceeds of “unlawful acts”.
Farouk had earlier attended The British School of Lome in Togo and in the 2004–05 academic year, studied at the San’a Institute for the Arabic Language in Sana’a, Yemen where he attended lectures at Iman University.
The Rivers State Governor alongside the governors of Oyo State, Seyi Makinde; Abia State, Okezie Ikpeazu; Enugu State, Ifeanyi Uguwanyi; and Benue State, Samuel Ortom; all members of the PDP, were believed to have worked the party’s candidate, Atiku Abubakar, in the election.
The environmental disaster bedevilling Anambra and the need to address it was the crux of the matter at a town-hall meeting held in celebration of the 2023 World Earth Day (WED) in Awka on Saturday.
The Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Mahmood Yakubu, had, on 1 March, declared Mr Tinubu Nigeria’s president-elect.
After his attack on the media, Mr Mohammed repeated the claim he made the previous day which is at variance with the position of INEC.
Mr Adeboye stated that the foundation has made significant impacts at the individual, community, and national levels through initiatives such as Kingdom advancement, youth empowerment, sanitation projects, leadership and governance.
The huge discount at which the property was sold is curious and raised questions of whether Mr Aluko desperately needed to sell the property even while a court of law had placed a freeze order on it.
“The programme will serve as an opportunity for PDP leaders, stakeholders and members to come together, since after the general election.”
The court document also showed that Section 8 of the Finance Act 1994 (FA 1994) provides for a penalty for the evasion of excise duty.
It has finally dawned on me that Soyinka can never be the man Chinua Achebe was.”
Obi targeted Igbo and Christian votes in his campaigns and he got his victories in the South-East and South-South.
There are indications that the President-elect, Bola Tinubu, has settled for Tajudeen Abbas and Ben Kalu as speaker and deputy speaker of the 10th House of Representatives, a move that leaves the North-central zone out of the top six positions.
Tinubu: APC asks election tribunal to dismiss Obi, LP’s petition, gives reasons
Pressure from constituents, work pressure, financial pressure.
The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) declared Osawaru Irobosa of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as the winner after the main election held on 18 March and the supplementary poll held on 15 April.
Mr Kelly said that even the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) affirmed Mr Abure as the chairman in their communique.
Mr Chukwulobelu made the disclosure at the ongoing “stakeholders’ engagement” organised by the Federal Ministry of Health, in partnership with the KNCV Tuberculosis Foundation and Breakthrough Action Nigeria, on Thursday in Awka.
But many other aspirants, including Mr Yari, have rejected the nominations and questioned the zoning formula on which they are based.
A five-member panel of the Court headed by Haruna Tsammani, fixed today, Thursday, for hearing of Atiku’s request for a live broadcast of the court’s proceedings.
The Vice Chairman of the Committee, Bala Na’Allah (APC-Kebbi) presented the motion on behalf of Mrs Olujimi.
The France-Nigeria Business Council is a key platform for strengthening business ties between France and Nigeria, with the aim of promoting mutual growth and prosperity.
But it is not the duty of the CAC to remove the trustees of associations.
Mr Omorogbe added that no untoward reports had been received in Abak/Etim Ekpo/Ika Federal Constituency and that results from there would be declared.
He said, “In the course of my duty as the governor, I knew in one way or the other I may have wronged some people by taking decisions that may affect some people negatively, so, in that course, I am asking for your forgiveness please.
The AKK project will transport up to 3,500 million cubic feet (mcf) of gas a day from various gas-gathering projects and help to generate 3.6 gigawatts of power and support gas-based industries along the route when completed.
The witness was also grilled over his testimony that the disarmament of warring parties in Sierra Leone ended in January 2001, a statement that contradicts accounts of other defence witnesses that the exercise did end in December of that year.
Similarly, a resident of Runka said: “From last week, these bandits were seen clearing bushes to make shelters, which means, they want to be here permanently.
Poor and vulnerable Nigerians can be selected from this database for inclusion in social programmes, as planned under the NASSP Scale up.
“Now, their overconfidence is creating more problems for the opposition than anyone else.
CAMA 2020: How court judgment whittles down CAC’s power over charity, religious organisations
But Mr Alabi conceded that leadership election is expensive, particularly in terms of logistics.
According to the prosecution, the defendant allegedly committed the offences sometime in June 2020 in Ikota Villa Estate, Lekki, Lagos.
He also said that when the apartment was searched, a bag containing a locally-fabricated pistol and three rounds of 7.62 AK-47 live ammunition were recovered.
The former financier, the China Exim Bank, backed off the project making way for the China Development Bank (CDB) to take over.
“I was not in the mood to know what is right or wrong,” Taiga said.
She said the 10th Assembly would be one of the most diverse with 70 per cent as new members.
The party had filed the petition against Mr Abiidun, the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) over the 18 March election.
Nigeria in 2015 enacted the Violence against Persons (Prohibition) Act, which outlawed all forms of violence against women and girls, including rape, female circumcision and forceful ejection, among others.
After the ceasefire, however, the Russian authorities were responsible for the situation in the conflict region and should have enforced the Human Rights Convention, the judges said at the time.
Mrs Dotson said she can’t wait to tell her friends and family members about her discovery.
Ghana, South Africa, Liberia, Kenya and 31 other countries were marked to have responded to the survey from the African region.
All I can tell you is that I am not a religious or tribal bigot.
“Like I said, those who are talking about religion in this country, can they show me where Muslims buy bread cheaper, so we can go there and buy the bread or show me where Christians buy the bread cheaper.
This, he said, was able to carry out online real-time monitoring of movements in and out of Nigeria at all ports of entry and exit.
Africa has emerged as a theatre for geopolitical competition where global powers are actively selling their future visions.
She said that she knew that she decided not to be the victim that got accused of embezzling public funds.
Since the abduction of the Chibok girls in 2014, efforts by the Nigerian government to secure the release of the remaining girls in captivity have not yielded much result.
With a stature and heart that dwarfed MA Towers of Adeola Odeku
“Additionally, you have a crucial responsibility of building an effective operational relationship with the executive arm.
Transnational Corporation of Nigeria (Transcorp) saw its net profit for the first three months of the year slow by 63.1 per cent as costs rose at a quicker pace than revenue.
This isn’t a laughing matter.
The NBC alleged that the interview ‘violated the NBC code.’
At a pre-hearing session of the court on Tuesday, after taking submissions from lawyers to parties in the APM’s petition, a five-member panel of the court led by Haruna Tsammani, ordered all parties to file their responses to all pending applications before the next hearing date.
Mr Tinubu said with Mr Wike's accomplishments in the state, Nigeria would need the outgoing Rivers governor in higher capacities.
“Efforts are already emplaced to arrest other fleeing gang members,” he stated.
Our focus should be on how to address the litany of challenges facing us such as deliberate non-adherence to the election process, the parlous state of our economy, unsustainable debt burden, lamentable unemployment and inflation, insecurity and multidimensional poverty.
As I am speaking with you, the phone screen is faulty.”
“That is for the reasons bordering on the preparation of the venue for the May 29 inauguration of President-elect, Bola Ahmed Tinubu.
Two months ago, locals had raised an alarm that the dead could no longer “rest in peace” in Ipokia as their skulls were being stolen by the suspected ritualists.
He said that the closure was followed by the court order issued to that effect.
He noted that “although the 2023 budget is being presented late to this Honorable Committee, we are confident that we shall strive to channel the lean resources to impactful projects/programmes,” he said.
Sulaiman Gumi, (PDP) member-elect, Gummi/Bukkuyum Federal Constituency, Zamfara, said INEC should be commended in spite of perceived gaps in the 2023 general elections.
“Only yesterday, our Presidential candidate, Mr Peter Obi through the Presidential Campaign Council alerted Nigerians of a plot to hound him out of the country over APC’s covert plot in collaboration with some security agents to frame him up allegedly on matters bothering on treason,” he noted.
I recall the 1959 Documentary, The Hate that Hate Produced, which was made at the height of the gospel of hatred that the Nation of Islam deployed as a means of mobilising for the redemption of the black man in America.
“The 2023 NNPP Gubernatorial Transition Committee wishes to draw the attention of all the 44 Local Government Council Chairmen and their Managements and advise them to desist from the alleged round tripping of public funds between their councils and the State’s Ministry for Local Governments.
One man was staying on the ground floor of his house during the flooding and drowned.
According to the report, one of the major issues that have impeded trade performance and thus diversification in Nigeria is the weak trade-related infrastructure.
I worked in Lokoja, Kogi state before I was posted to Warri, Delta state.
“We want to assure you of proper utilisation of the centre and particularly for the purpose it was meant for and also continue to contribute our quota,” Mr Umahi said.
We find that Mr Fagbewesa filled out that form, identifying his 4 black bags.
Prosecutors have alleged that in Lofa, Mr Massaquoi did commit widespread human rights violations, including ordering the arrests of civilians, locking them up in buildings and burning them alive.
Speaking also about the Abuja-Kano expressway, to be completed on 30 April as well, Mr Fashola said it was the biggest of all the road projects in terms of scope and budget.
The board also said it looks forward to working with him on the World Bank Group Evolution process, as discussed at the April 2023 Spring Meetings, and on all the World Bank Group’s initiatives to promote sustainable economic growth and development worldwide.
The Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, has said over 700 kilometres of roads spreading across 11 states in the country would soon be completed.
Bloomberg projected in a report last November that Nigeria is set to see its biggest devaluation in six years this year as a new administration takes over next month.
“And of course the rationale and justification will also be examined in the context of the debt sustainability requirement under the Fiscal Debt Responsibility Act,” he added.
The defendant, however, denied the allegations saying they were untrue.
It suggested that the judgement delivered by the Federal High Court in Abuja on Wednesday conflicted with a previous court decision.
JERUB, an emerging Nigeria-born and Nottingham-based musician whose sound is rooted in pop, soul and indie, is also billed to perform at the concert.
He said he had explored all available means to get Messrs Adamu and Omisore to comply with the APC constitution on financial disclosure but that the two had refused to act.
The report explained that despite urgent appeals from researchers and development agencies, with 25 million Nigerians estimated to face hunger between June and August 2023, no comprehensive strategy has been proposed to address this escalating crisis.
“Consequently, the Army, Mobile Policemen, both visiting and State based and Conventional Policemen have been permanently stationed in the Crisis zone.
Man who seized debtor’s phone acquitted of robbery charge
The minister subsequently set up an administrative panel of inquiry to investigate the affairs of the NPA, including awards of contracts from 2016 to May 2021.
He said the troops also recovered a cache of arms, 18 mobile phones, 38 railway sleepers amongst other sundry items.
Mr Buhari assured that the 29 May handover date remains sacrosanct.
By Garba Shehu’s latest statement, the presidency has clearly demonstrated that Governor Ortom is right when he consistently accused the APC-led federal government of complicity in the killings orchestrated against Benue people by the Fulani herdsmen as represented by Miyetti Allah Kautal, Fulani Nationality Movement, FUNAM and other Fulani socio cultural groups.
There, he rose to become the College Librarian.
Muhammad Bulkachuwa (APC-Bauch) however, said the motion had come too late as the matter should have been presented earlier before the Senate.
Bright Edafe, the police spokesperson in the state, disclosed this in a statement he sent to PREMIUM TIMES on Wednesday.
The Senate had on Tuesday directed the minister to stop the planned demolition of the offices pending the outcome of the intervention made by its committee on aviation.
“A year ago, I conceived the idea of providing free heart surgeries and interventions to Nigerians in need of such care.
The president also granted the request of the Board of MOFI to charge management and transaction fees.
The provinces of Ravenna, Forlì-Cesena, Rimini and Bologna and especially the cities of Faenza, Cesena and Forlì are the worst affected, according to the Italian fire service.
The crack within the party had widened since its loss at the presidential election with its factionalisation becoming more pronounced.
However, at Monday’s proceedings, the lawyer representing the police, Rimamsomte Ezekiel, informed the trial judge, Mohammed Madugu, that he would continue the trial with the initial charge against Messrs Njoku and Nwoga.
He said: “If they come at us through land, air and sea, we will respond to them through land, air and sea but we will remain law-abiding and will never give up on the nation.
Mr Muoghalu, a professor, who spoke on “Flood menace in Anambra.
But he is facing two major challenges.
Speaking further, Mrs Adeyeye said: “NAFDAC in exercising its mandate as stipulated by its enabling law, NAFDAC Act CapN1, LFN 2004, is granting registration approval for R21 Malaria Vaccine (Recombinant, Adjuvanted) manufactured by Serum Institute of India Pvt.
He collected my phone from me forcefully and smashed it on the ground.
“People need to know that they don’t need to have pain before visiting dentists.
Governor Abdullahi Sule of Nasarawa State has lifted the ban the state government placed on in-service training for workers in the state.
Until her latest appointment, Mrs Okorie was the Acting Director of Information and Public Relations of the University.
The presidential aide said the council approved N65 million for variation in the cost for the supply of airport fire crash tenders in the Ministry of Aviation.
“Notably in the areas of humanitarian assistance, healthcare, education, women and youth empowerment and the successes achieved in these areas are monumental.
He described INEC’s claim as false, maintaining that the “election was duly conducted in the said ward and the unit results given to the petitioners’ agents at the Polling Units.”
Do accept the assurances of my esteemed regards,” the statement said.
Team Fistula Fighters also took home a $500 prize.
His opponents claim the elections have been fixed.
Unilever Nigeria, the local unit of British multinational consumer goods company Unilever Plc, is discontinuing the manufacturing of its homecare and skin-cleansing brands.
“And we are there as a state to ensure that we are able to provide a competitive, peaceful and welcoming environment,” he added.
The governor, represented by his Deputy, Emmanuel Akabe, said civil service still remained the viable implementer of government’s policies and programmes.
Mr Areghan also stated that no school would have any result without a complete CASS upload.
It’s given that you are already a substantial shareholder,” he added in response to the question about whether his organisation has been informed of the development.
Read Mr Soyinka’s full statement below.
Peter Obi did not win.
Mr Tinubu, the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential candidate in the disputed poll, made this call in his preliminary objection filed against Atiku’s petition through his team of lawyers led by Wole Olanipekun, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN).
APC governorship candidate vows to challenge PDP’s victory at election tribunal
In a similar meeting, the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD) called on the two parties to immediately par and unconditionally cease hostilities; de-escalate tensions; and allow unfettered humanitarian access and ensure Sudanese citizens observe the holy month of Ramadan in peace.
Fans and families have continued to pay their last respect to the veteran actor with the hashtags #RIP Saint Obi and #Obinna Nwafor on Twitter.
How can you buy 10 fire trucks for 12bn Naira @1.2bn each.
The judge adjourned the suit until 3 May for ruling.
“We are not talking about the approval of the loan; it is the financier that backed out and there is now another financier,’’ he said.
However, in a statement on Thursday, the National Publicity Secretary of the APC, Felix Morka, said the suspension has been set aside by the National Working Committee (NWC) pending a review of the allegations.
According to NCDC, 24 states have recorded at least one confirmed case across 98 Local Government Areas, with 72 per cent of all confirmed cases reported from three states of Ondo, Edo, and Bauchi.
The event gives people from different parts of the world an opportunity to show their national pride.
Its PE ratio is 3.1x at the moment, while its EPS is N1.81.
According to the organisers, one notable trend across England and Wales, Nigeria, Spain and Uganda is the high representation of female lawyers in the public sector.
Unsurprisingly, the popularity of Spyro’s song sparked the question, ‘Who is your guy?’, further showcasing Nigeria’s deep-rooted love for the tune.
Mr Kolade said the centre “is complete with an incubation hub, an accelerator space, a studio for content creators, two training rooms, a multipurpose hall and a restaurant.
However, if there was no intention of permanent deprivation – that’s to either put the phone to personal use or sell it – it may be difficult to make a case of robbery.”
This operation may now suffer, staff in Nigeria fear.
EFCC had preferred a 17-count charge bordering on N4.6 billion money laundering against them before a former judge, Mohammed Aikawa.
State House Medical Centre: Buhari to inaugurate N21 billion presidential wing Friday
Whichever way the party decides to go, the North-central is expected to be in the scheme of things.
The judge, James Omotosho, in a judgement, also set aside the N500,000 fines imposed, on 1 March 2019, on each of 45 broadcast stations.
In some cases, the results for the National Assembly elections were uploaded in some polling units instead of the presidential election results.
The contract was signed in March 2021 by Mohammad Shafiq, CEO of Jampur International FZE, and Vicente Campenni, General Manager of INVAP.
The Turkish leader said his country attached great importance to improving its relationship with Nigeria as the strongest nation in Africa.
The chairman of the party in the state, Sunday Oginni, announced the development on Sunday at a press conference held at the party’s secretariat in Abeokuta.
A resident of Ipokia, who simply identified herself as Morufat, told PREMIUM TIMES that the efforts paid off on Monday night when they arrested Mr Solomon at Idologun area of the town while exhuming a body from the grave.
According to him, this administration has achieved remarkable transformation of the military in the areas of fighting power, training, operations, manpower, remunerations and medical services.
The crisis re-ignited over the weekend, leading to the razing of the police station in the area.
“The story in its entirety was created to distract the military from carrying out its duties of protecting lives and property.
So, it is a really sad situation.”
“This memo is for the electronic NSITF.
Her entire legal career beginning with her call to the bar in 1984 is about 39 years old.
Nigerians should pray for the success of Tinubu’s government because his leadership will be impactful.”
What if it knocks you out?
At the end of that exercise, PDP added three additional seats having won in Sokoto South, Zamfara Central and Kebbi North Senatorial districts.
“You know that the ECA makes it mandatory for all employers to insure through a token contribution of per cent of emolument of their workers to the fund called social trust fund of the NSITF.
However, I commend the few gallant officers working without sufficient arms, yet gave themselves to save lives,” he said.
She explained that although her seeking approval from the late Chief of Staff, Abba Kyari meant that she was “going above” Mr Amaechi but for her, it was “getting things done”.
Since he made the illegal declaration, Mr Ari has not been seen in public and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) said it was unaware of Mr Ari’s whereabouts as he had neither responded to letters, messages and phone calls to his line nor responded to the commission’s directive that he should present himself at the INEC headquarters.
The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) had earlier picked its National Secretary, Samuel Anyanwu, as its candidate.
Election Petition: Tribunal orders substituted service on Sanwo-Olu
Sudan has recorded intense clashes between the country’s military and the main paramilitary force.
Mr Obi’s haul of votes in the area implies he, and not Bola Tinubu of the All Progressives Congress (APC), won the presidential election in Rivers, contrary to the declaration made by INEC.
“The public service does not in fact accept resignations from staff under probe.
“When the complainant climbed the pole to disconnect the cable that carried light to the defendant’s house, she (defendant), out of anger, pushed the ladder which the complainant was mounting,” she said.
In the other Group B clash, Zambia secured a shock 2-1 win over Morocco.
He stated this on Monday during the meeting of the caucus at the Fraser Suites Hotel.
The All Progressives Congress (APC), on Monday, asked the Presidential Election Petition Court (PEPC) in Abuja to dismiss the petition filed by the Labour Party (LP) and its presidential candidate, Peter Obi, against the emergence of Bola Tinubu as the president-elect in the 25 February election.
He said: “We need to read to know what is happening in the world, our reading culture in this part of the world is poor, people hardly read.
The party’s Acting National Publicity Secretary, Obiora Ifoh, stated on Tuesday in Abuja that the presidential election petition tribunal in particular should dismiss the letter.
The title of the programme is ‘‘Strategic Leadership For Enduring Impact During Volatile Periods’ and will be delivered by Ambassador Charles Crawford (winner of the equivalent of two Oscars), Oxford-trained Professor Roger Delves and Professor Rodria Laline, Founding Director of the Harvard University Maximise Your Board Programme and Professor Paul Griffith, a London Business School alumnus.
Relatives of a patient infected with Lassa Fever- an acute viral hemorrhagic illness transmitted to humans through contact with food or household items contaminated by infected rodents or infected persons, have lamented poor treatment and management at the Infectious Disease Hospital (IDH), Yaba, Lagos State.
The reason for these banks’ continual caution and advocacy is not farfetched.
Even Air Peace, which is the biggest airline, when we came in 2015 how many airlines did they have?
“The shame, fear, and confusion victims feel when caught in this cycle often prevent them from asking for help or reporting the abuse.”
A good example of how to reach wider audiences is a recent documentary, viewable on mobile devices, that shows pangolins as the most trafficked mammal.
By name, some of the victims of the midnight abductions include Idris Mohammed, Abdullahi Zubairu, Sani S. Magani, Peter Modu, Ibrahim Mamman, Yellow Abdulrasheed, Musa Suleiman, Simbiya Ishaku, Sumaiya Ibrahim, Muktari Yunusa and Mohammed Yeluwa and Rahmat Shagari, among others.
Mr Obi and Atiku are currently challenging Mr Tinubu’s victory at the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal, Abuja.
“Technological innovation introduced in the conduct of the election and the untiring commitment of the management and staff of INEC added tremendous value to the credibility of the election,’’ the governor said.
Alleged Money Laundering: EFCC rearrests Mompha
The Federal High Court in Abuja, on Tuesday, raised doubts about its power to hear an application by the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Adamawa State, Aisha Dahiru-Ahmed, popularly called Binani, over the governorship election in the state.
It is a big encouragement for us players that we can make it too,” Williams was quoted as saying by the football federation.
“The fact that he refused to make the incidents known to any member of the family also gives course for concern moreso when the suspect is a herbalist, thus further fueling the suspicion of having killed the deceased for possible rituals.
Security has deteriorated in Nigeria’s south-east with frequent attacks by armed persons across the region.
The state government has continuously stationed a joint security team in the community to keep the peace and help bring the conflict to an end.
The governor claimed that “no core civil servant and or ministry are owed salaries before now” but did not provide details.
The new development was confirmed to PREMIUM TIMES on Saturday evening by a highly placed JAMB official who does not want to be named for lacking the authority to give the information.
At the presentation of the Nigeria Subnational EoDB Awards, Gombe State won the 1st Position for Inaugural Subnational Report 2021, while Jigawa and Sokoto were second and third respectively.
Through the Export Trading House, the volume of export and the feasibility of seeing Nigeria’s products and market share with countries will be enhanced”.
Saint Obi was a Nigerian actor, film producer and film director famous for his roles in State of Emergency; Candle Light; Sakobi; Goodbye Tomorrow; Heart of Gold; Festival of Fire; Executive Crime; and Last Party, amongst others.
The court adjourned the case until 2 May due to the absence of a defence lawyer, who had sent in a letter to request permission to be away.
The residents alternatively resorted to traveling from Oron to Eket, about 37 minutes’ drive, for their bank transactions.
The deputy speaker is a sensitive position in the House, who serves as the Chairman House Committee of the Whole and also by convention the Chairman Special Committee on Constitutional Review.
PREMIUM TIMES gathered that the pupils have been taken to the Kebbi State Government House.
The prosecution called several witnesses and tendered several documents to prove the case against the defendant.
He also assured the total support of the Senate to the security agencies.
The NNPCL allegedly paid the N20 billion to one of its consultants, Messrs Safaya.
The 48,075 eligible voters may not come out to vote in the affected areas.
He mentioned that Fasoranti cannot talk to him but we believe that we the youths can talk to him.
The lower chamber made its position known on Tuesday, following a motion of urgent importance moved by Ali Halims (APC, Kogi) during plenary.
Dissatisfied with the ruling, the EFCC through its counsel, Godwin Obla (SAN), filed a Notice of Appeal dated 30 September 2014 challenging the decision of the trial court.
Which economic miracle worker in Punch newspaper can turn round an economy which suffers from collapse of oil prices, COVID-19 lockdown and associated supply chain crisis and the Russia-Ukraine war?
He claimed that the intention of the aviation ministry was to remove the structure housing the office of the managing director of Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) and other commercial buildings and replace them with hotels, shopping malls, cinemas and other lucrative businesses that will increase revenue of the ministry.
JAMB also listed the acceptable A-level results for this year’s DE registration.
• Yaroe Binos Dauda Adamawa South
Buhari condoles with Ralph Akinfeleye over wife’s death
Mr Kany also alleged between 2018 and 2021 made a broadcast received and heard in Nigeria with the intent to incite violence, in furtherance of an act of terrorism against Nigeria and its people, directed members of the public to burn down every federal facility in Lagos resulting in major economic loss to the federal government.
In an interview with Channels Television, Mr Soyinka said he told the presidential candidate of the party before the presidential election that if he lost the election, it would be his followers who lost it for him.
To conduct an independent autopsy, the school requested the paraffin block of the skin sample and slides from which the diagnosis of electrocution was made, the samples of the urine, blood, and other body fluid collected at autopsy, samples of bone and muscle taken from the deceased for independent DNA analysis.
Below are the full details of the seven charges that were struck out
I may not see through your heart 100% sir Murph but to the best of my knowledge you like, you respect, you value my talent, you respect my decisions and we are hardly at loggerheads.
Through bribes and illegal transactions, it said some Chinese nationals have allegedly funded terrorist groups in Nigeria, turning the region into the country’s bloodiest conflict zone.
“It is important to note that these emails and messages did not originate from UBA, and we would never at any point in time ask for your account details over the telephone or via SMS, emails, live chat or social media.
“It is most unfortunate that these consistent efforts to portray me quite contrary to what I am, and my core values, are coming from such high quarters.
To keep the legislature down accords with the self-interest of the executive, which decries independent attempts at enhancing transparency.
The management says the objective of the training is to expose members-elect to the functions of the National Assembly; its practices and procedures as well as the services available to them.
“In short, the downward adjustment to 22 months, taking into account all aggravating and mitigating factors, was simply far too great,” Mr Lloyd had told the Court of Appeal in making a case for a longer sentence.
But an official said the commission had possibly recovered the money from the convict.
The final result was announced at the INEC headquarters in Birnin Kebbi by the Returning Officer, Yusuf Sa’idu of Usmanu Danfodio University, Sokoto.
Mr Tinubu’s initial choice of Mr Masari was a strategy to beat INEC’s deadline of 17 June 2022, for presidential candidates to submit names of their vice presidential picks.
The statement said Mr Buhari noted that Nigeria has been at the forefront of the remarkable growth of startups in Africa, with Nigerian start-ups raising over $4 billion between 2019 and 2022.
“On this note, we want to pass a vote of no confidence on the Inspector General of Police for his persistent interference in Zamfara politics.
But the lawyer to the two journalists, Ibraheem Gambari, said his clients would exercise their right of appeal to get the judgement overturned.
The two main types of haemophilia are A and B, with a third, rarer form called haemophilia C.
This is an important thing to talk about and address with the Nigerian people.
Again, court adjourns Peter Obi’s petition against Tinubu
The supplementary elections will hold in 2,660 polling units across 185 local governments in the county.
The report noted that in 2020, 788 women and children died ‘per thousand’ in India and 540 women and children ‘per thousand’ died in Nigeria.
Look, we have the same faith ticket for the election.
This is Mr Wali’s second abduction experience.
Contacted via messaging app, Presidential spokesperson Garba Shehu asked if CPJ had found the Nigerian government responsible for the killings of journalists.
e. Ahmed I. Shekarau, Group Executive Director, Media Trust Group
Also intercepted were 31 cartons of various medicaments including tramadol; 32 jerry cans of petrol and 540 pieces of used tyres.
Now that the Court is back in Finland, it’s preparing to listen to final arguments from prosecution and defence lawyers, beginning June 5th.
However, Kwara United scored what happened to be a consolation goal in the 50th minute from substitute Samad Kadiri.
The Hillcrest management filed a petition at the Kwara State Police Command, demanding an investigation into the allegations.
He also delivered the judgement of the Court of Appeal in Abuja that issued the order restraining the Rivers and Lagos state governments from taking action on their bids to collect Value Added Tax (VAT).
PREMIUM TIMES also understands she recently shunned an invitation to appear before a ministerial panel the affairs of the NIPC under her watch.
The governor-elect said the state's civil service is in a state of near collapse and in Intensive Care Unit (ICU), but he has come to infuse life into it and keep it moving.
Mr Tinubu also won at least one state in each of the regions except South-east.
But PREMIUM TIMES learnt that the ministry declined, citing security concerns.
Burkina Faso has seen an escalation in attacks, with Médecins Sans Frontiers (MSF) reporting that since 2018, violent clashes in the Sahel have led to the internal displacement of over 1.5 million people.
Nigerians are saddened that your sacred temples have been invaded by the political class leaving the toxic fumes that now threaten your reputation as the last hope for all citizens.
They are the incumbent Deputy Speaker, Idris Wase and Yusuf Gagdi, who are both from Plateau State and Olatunji Raheem, a lawmaker from Kwara State.
The applicable duties for most of the items are unchanged from the 2022 FPM rates.
The plaintiffs are seeking “an order setting aside the N5m fine for being inconsistent and incompatible with section 22, 36 and 39 of the Nigerian Constitution 1999 [as amended], Article 9 of the African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights, and Article 19 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights.”
Speaking on his plans, Mr Doguwa, who wrote to his colleagues last week to intimate them of his ambition, said he will initiate sectorial reforms in the 360-member legislature.
That so-called country, the Caliphate is unrecognizable from today’s Nigeria.
Last year, the Minister of Mines and Steel Development, Olamilekan Adegbite, said 11 foreign companies indicated interest in the take over of Ajaokuta steel company on a concession basis.
“That the NSA thereafter sought the support of the banks in tackling the challenges in sanitising the system and ensuring the leakages are blocked,” Mr Raji said.
According to Ms Ekweremadu, her family could not get a donor from within the family because of their own history of kidney conditions which led to searching for one outside.
Feud between PSC, Police embarrassing – Arase
Mrs Okah said the centre would provide rooms for professional counseling and skill acquisition programmes to enable GBV survivors fit into the society as they leave the facility.
They also proposed that the position of majority leader, deputy majority leader and chief whip should be used as compensation for those that may be asked to step down from running from the four presiding officers position.
The police spokesperson in the state, Tochukwu Ikenga, disclosed this in a statement on Wednesday.
Hiring was restrained and employment consequently slowed as companies still grappled with uncertainty in some way, following the crisis.
According to him, NIS has taken a step further to visit traditional rulers in the border communities to avoid engaging in transborder crimes.
“We believe that their withdrawal and cooperation will reduce the acrimony that commonly characterises the jostle for power in the National Assembly amongst the geo-political zones.
Eludoyin’s properties were purchased between 2004 and 2007 when Tinubu was governor of Lagos State.
Mr Lukman had last month called on Mr Adamu to resign to pave the way for a Christian politician to emerge as the national chairman in order to ensure religious balance in the party since Mr Tinubu and his deputy, Kashim Shettima, are Muslims.
The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) says it has begun investigation into the controversies that earlier trailed the supplementary governorship election in Adamawa State.
However, explosions and gunfire rang out across Khartoum on Saturday.
The police spokesperson in the state, Adewale Osifeso, disclosed this in a statement on Wednesday.
Recently, we have rallied ourselves to give back to it.
Apart from the assault incident, the neighbourhood looks calm.
“We are trying to get justice for our daughter by all means,” she said.
“Therefore, we are saying here that the 36 state chairmen have come to retake their possession.
I believe that he was ill advised.
The Presidential Election Petition Court in Abuja on Wednesday adjourned hearing in Peter Obi’s petition challenging Bola Tinubu’s victory as Nigeria’s president-elect.
President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday met with the Benue State Governor-elect, Hyacinth Alia, at the Presidential Villa Abuja.
The army spokesperson, Musa Danmadami, didn’t respond to SMS and WhatsApp message sent to him.
According to the result announced by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) Mr Tinubu, a former governor of Lagos State emerged winner of the election and also won in Rivers, a traditional PDP state for the first time since 1999.
“Section 22 of the 1999 Constitution (As amended), empowers the Press to hold the government accountable to the people, thereby distinguishing journalists as those who perform essential duty to the nation.
The ruling party got 799,957 votes from the South-south.
It is perhaps expedient that Mr. President-elect interrogates this skewed arrangement and give direction that reflects our collective commitment to equality and fairness.
“When we arrived at 7:30 am, I tried to explain to them and pleaded for reconsideration but I was told to go home”.
The fresh suit adds to a string of suits that have been filed to challenge Mr Tinubu’s victory in the February presidential election.
To ensure that we work as a family.
It accused members of the media of spreading false news and propaganda.
The Nigerian government seeks the extradition of the brothers and their co-suspect over their indictment at a United States federal court on 1 December 2022.
He was said to have owned 30 per cent shares of the firm which he devolved to his estate before he died in November 1987, according to the estate’s court filing.
The judge, Inyang Ekwo, directed Binani’s lawyer, Mohammed Sheriff, to return to court on 26 April to address him on the point of law.
The Returning Officer, Muhammad Mele, who is the official with the powers to declare the results according to the electoral act 2022, later continued the collation of results and announced the incumbent governor, Ahmadu Fintiri of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as the winner of the election.
The International Committee of the Red Cross will cut about 1,500 jobs and scale back activities in some operations, the 160-year-old Swiss organisation has said amid a financial crisis that has triggered significant cost-saving measures as well as reductions in humanitarian activities.
The Federal High Court on Thursday granted bail to Chude Nnamdi, a social media influencer, after his arraignment on a charge of cyberstalking a business mogul, Emeka Offor.
But, the National Coordinator of SINET claimed that it is dangerous for the Nigerian government to handover the steel company to private companies.
The Chairman of the Progressive Governors, Governor Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi State, who led his colleagues to Mr Tinubu’s residence, said the visit was to congratulate the president-elect on his election, extend goodwill to him over the end of Ramadan Fast and welcome him back from his recent travel and celebrate with him.
He said the committee comprised himself, the Chief Executive Officer of NNPC Limited, Mele Kyari, a former Director General of State Security Services, Lawal Daura, and former Chief of Staff to Mr Buhari, Abba Kyari.
The Commissioner of Police in the state, Faleye Olaleye, mobilised the police tactical teams and a divisional police officer for a rescue operation – they cordoned off a marked area – after receiving a distress call on Sunday about the kidnap of a cleric in the state.
The palace spokesperson, Moses Olafare, later confirmed the incident in a statement on Saturday.
He is an environment enthusiast who is passionate about journalism that drives sustainable development.
Meanwhile, the Civil Society Coalition Against Impunity had, in April, demanded the release of Mr Emeh.
The Senate, on Wednesday, urged the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to release $717.5 million of airlines’ funds trapped in the country.
Mr Eddy is a popular trader at the Mercedes’ Benz Line, Ladipo spare parts market in the Mushin area of the state.
My flourishing and manned law Chambers (whilst I am away on national assignment) and my real estate investments are still far more financially profitable than serving my country.
She explained that the establishment would help to reduce dangers and prevent further harm against survivors who are at risk of immediate danger from their perpetrators.
The police spokesperson in Osun, Yemisi Opalola, confirmed the incident in Osogbo on Monday and assured that the police were on the trail of the suspects.
With respect, I do not agree with this line of argument by the Attorney General that he cannot challenge the States’ pension laws for former governors.”
The Vice-Chancellor of the university, Christian Anieke, announced this while addressing staff and students and its group of institutions, according to a report by the Nation newspaper.
He clarified that the appointment of Returning Officer for the election was done prior to the presidential election as the same State Collation Officer for the Presidential Election (SCOPE) served as the Returning Officer for the governorship election.
The attacks have been attributed to the outlawed Indigenous People of Biafra, which is agitating for a sovereign state for the Igbo-speaking people in the south-east.
”Going by the results, none of the opposition parties met any of the conditions stipulated for winning the presidential election.
He said that Messrs Kente and Jimkuta remain members of the APC in Taraba.
The last time I checked, I think the Nigerian constitution allows you to have dual citizenship.
It said: “For an election petition to be competent, it must complain against the return and/or election of the winner of the disputed election.
But, apparently after addressing the technical hitches it had, INEC continued to upload the results and has uploaded over 94 per cent of the polling units’ results.
The dissolution was contained in a statement on Saturday night, jointly signed by the Director General of the APC PCC, Governor Simon Lalong and the Secretary of the council, James Faleke.
He added that the lawmaker has the needed humility to preside over the House.
“So, we are discussing with them.
‘‘Housing supply is one of the indices of multi-dimensional poverty that challenges our people and the completion of this estate provides a solution for the beneficiaries.
“Except Kebbi state which stands top among the states because the state has made a lot of impact on the agricultural revolution in Nigeria.
“His team alongside others were behind the recent arrest of forty-two suspected cultists in a space of two weeks in different parts of the state,” he wrote.
In the North-west, Mr Danmadami said the troops of Operation Hadarin Daji neutralised 24 terrorists, apprehended 19 suspected criminals and rescued 43 abducted civilians in different operations within the period.
The ethnic and religious identities of the front runners – Bola Tinubu (Yoruba Muslim), Peter Obi (Igbo Christian), Atiku Abubakar and Rabiu Kwankwaso (Hausa-Fulani Muslims) – shaped the result of the elections as predicted.
Corruption ran rampant, oil-prices were nose-diving and – astoundingly – an international terror cell, the Boko Haram controlled territory the size of Belgium within our country’s borders.
AU Agency urges farmers to embrace climate smart agriculture practices
“Deductively, this means that we are not bidding for those two positions.
FEC approves N1.5 trillion road projects across 11 states
According to a statement issued by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, he asserted that while the APC was working hard to retain power in the recent elections, the combined opposition was busy telling their foreign backers that they would defeat the APC.
Local hunters and police operatives are said to be combing the forest in the area in search of the couple and the abductors.
“On April 15th, 2021, the case finally came before Justice Adesanya of Court 11, Lagos State High Court, Tafa Balewa Square, Onikan, Lagos for the first time, but the defendant was not in custody,” the letter reads.
The experts spoke during a virtual media roundtable organised by an American pharmaceutical giant- Pfizer, to raise awareness about AMR and ensure ongoing patient safety efforts “so as to maintain the future effectiveness of antibiotics.”
Buhari inaugurates defence communications infrastructure
The Russian president is allegedly responsible for war crimes against children in Ukraine since February 2022.
Atiku scored 88,468, while Mr Kwankwaso clinched 1,322 votes.
According to an analysis of the results of the presidential election by PREMIUM TIMES, In the North-central, 4.56 million people voted in the exercise.
The light-skinned actor’s last post on social media was on Saturday where he wished his fans a happy weekend.
Mr Gandi said that the younger sister of the victim advised her that they should either commit suicide or kill their father to free themselves from the abusive act.
We now have several groups in the House, “Joint Task, Greater Majority and others.
No casualty has been recorded so far, the government said.
The suit filed by Mr Owuru’s lawyer, Odion Peter, prayed to the Court of Appeal for a speedy hearing and determination of the case before Mr Tinubu’s inauguration.
If there was a robust consultation among the people from the South by the ruling party, maybe we could have said we will give it back to the South-south.
Between 2023 and 2015, the number of persons aged 65 or over is expected to nearly double in China and to more than double in India, he added.
The ceasefire largely held during the night, the reporter said.
Ekiti governor to appoint person with disability into government
Corruption can be expected to rise.
Apart from asking the court to issue an order to return him to office, Ararume also demanded for N100 billion as compensation for the damages he suffered following the unlawful removal.
The Managing Director of Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) , Sulyman Abdulaziz, also lamented the high rate of defaulters of electricity bills.
He promised to get back to our reporter as soon as he got the details.
Whoever emerges in June when the 10th National Assembly will be inaugurated will be the 10th speaker.
If so, let it be known that I have long declared war against religious fundamentalism, the nature of which justifies the butchery, kidnapping and enslavement of students in the name of religion.
Responding, Governor Ugwuanyi expressed concern over the sad incident and assured the people of Ozalla and the entire state of his commitment to ensuring that hoodlums had no place in the state.
FCC should stop castigating governors, extend its probe to officers at the Federal level
“The students have been safely evacuated to a military facility where they are presently receiving medical attention.
I was military Head of State from 1976 to 1979 and elected President from 1999 to 2007.
It stated further that all the PDP’s presidential candidates were screened on 29 April 29, an exercise Mr Obi participated in and cleared to contest while being a member of the party.
“The problem is that seizing his (the debtor’s) phone on the road was not proper.
Mr Shehu said: ‘`Two major contracts were approved for Ogoniland, Rivers, and you know, Ogoni is one of the flagships of the President Muhammadu Buhari’s admmistration.
The statement said the case was immediately transferred to the State Criminal Investigation Department of the police for investigation and prosecution.
"The ten persons who sustained various degrees of injuries during the incident are currently receiving treatment at various hospitals."
Do I still believe in it?
But given that his emergence was not through an election, Ohanaeze Imeobi needed to ratify the position.
The high point of the summit was the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) worth over $15 billion between the NDDC and Atlanta Global Resources Inc, an international infrastructure project financing firm, for the construction of a mega rail line that would connect the nine states that makeup NDDC and ease the infrastructure deficit in the region.
The photo metric system is for measurement of light intensity for proper visibility at the airport .
The Supreme Court granted leave to the federal government to update its filings with the additional grounds on Thursday.
The police did not provide details about who Mr Ekwueme is and whether he is an officer.
Hundreds of terrorists led by a notorious bandit, Ɗan-ƙarami, have reportedly relocated from Zamfara to areas between Safana and Batsari Local Government Areas of Katsina State.
Mr Saidu said the ACF would continue to fight or speak against injustice in the country.
PREMIUM TIMES reported how some residents of Delta State protested with the victim’s corpse through major roads in Asaba.
Mr Saidu, also the leader of the Arewa Community in Southern Nigeria, said endorsing Mr Akpabio for the Senate Presidency would spell doom for Northern Nigeria.
“Yes, it’s true he has released three students and we did not pay additional ransom this time,” Mr Kaoje’s message reads in Hausa.
Punch possibly doesn’t have a record of the government’s Survival Fund, the National Youth Investment Fund, and National Special Public Works Program (774,000 beneficiaries across 774 LGAs nationwide), and the Central Bank’s COVID-19 N300 billion Targeted Credit Facility (TCF) to support millions of small businesses, households, and young people, with federal grants, loans, and stipends.
He also suggested that his mother, with whom he had recently fallen out, was instrumental in encouraging Susan to make the false claim.
Chimamanda gives her readers the impression that the deployment of technology implies that some machine would magically conjure puritanical results online, portraying and guaranteeing the transparency and credibility of the exercise.
They alleged that Mr Sanwo-Olu refused to collect the document from the bailiff when the court official got to his office to serve him.
In his presentation, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Modern Agricultural and Allied Practices, Hakeem Ajeigbe, urged farmers to increase dry season cultivation of grains including legumes for food, feed and crop residue.
“The government is closely following the development of events and is ready to take the necessary relief measures,’’ she wrote on Twitter.
Unusually large, enthusiastic crowds turned up for his rallies”.
In the charge, Messrs Njoku and Nwoga are accused of falsifying a judgment delivered by the Supreme Court on 14 October 2021 in the appeal marked: SC/CV/686/2021 and inserting Njoku’s name as the second defendant when he was never a party in the case.
“They were recognised for best addressing diversity, equity and inclusion throughout the process of designing an accessibility-focused sanitary seat and cover to be used with open toilets, which are common throughout the world,” the institution posted on its website.
They were selling N1,000 note at 10 per cent.
President Muhammadu Buhari has tasked the incoming administration to respect workers rights as encapsulated in International Labour Organisation (ILO), declarations on labour matters.
“When she refused, he arranged for her kidnap, apparently to send her to a military school.
Mr Onyeizu, who is a university lecturer, said “We were also looking at Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which had to do with how we make use of our resources so that our future generation could also have enough to use or exploit.
But, Adebayo Haroun, representing the state government had argued that the government did not violate the law or dissolve the national body’s operations in the state, but had sought to maintain law and order by creating the ad-hoc committee when violence ensued between the unions.
“It will be a key determinant for achieving the Sustainable Development Goals Agenda 2030 and African Union Agenda 2063,” she said.
Saturday’s supplementary election was reportedly marred by voter suppression and intimidation.
The National Industrial Court of Nigeria in Lagos on Tuesday ordered the reinstatement of the operations of the Road Transport Employers Association of Nigeria (RTEAN) in the state, nullifying the state government’s appointment of a caretaker committee.
But the work of PEBEC is far from done.
Davido’s anticipated comeback concert, held on Sunday at the Tafawa Balewa Square (TBS), was one for the books.
During cross-examination by the prosecution, he confirmed that he did not report the smoking of Indian hemp at the company to any law enforcement agency.
“Mr Peter Obi and the LP/PCC have since moved on from the incident and continue to be totally focused, on the legal processes before the Election Petition Tribunal towards the recovery of our mandate, which we are firmly convinced was overwhelmingly expressed by voters, in the Presidential election of February 25th,” the statement said.
A building in the palace of Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, has been razed down by fire, PREMIUM TIMES has learnt.
It entails marching/trooping the old colours past the formed up soldiers of the regiment/unit, retiring the colours, presenting the new colours to the regiment/unit and then consecrating the new colours.
“His accomplishment is a testament to the great Nigerian spirit and to what is possible and achievable given the right academic environment, something which, in my agenda for Renewed Hope for Nigerians, I promised to provide and sustain during my presidency.
The minister copied all the major anti-graft agencies—the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission (ICPC) and CCB.
The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) has said it would release the results of candidates who have taken the Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) on Tuesday, 2 May.
The first batch are expected in Nigeria today, Friday, her spokesperson quoted her as saying at the breifing.
Mr Maren expressed dissatisfaction with the effort of the federal government in providing security for the people of the state.
The PPRO added that the commissioner advised residents of the state to be law abiding at all times.
OAU hands over students accused of lynching colleague
Mr Dangote acknowledged the positive efforts of the Nigerian National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) as the second national drug regulator to approve the use of the R21 vaccine.
“However, as with COVID-19, that does not mean that the work is over.
He said that when labour unions engaged in frank negotiations, it would be reflected on the economy as improved productivity.
“The unprecedented demand for the first malaria vaccine is considered an opportunity to bring children back to clinics to catch up on missed vaccines and child health interventions – including reinforcing the need for children to sleep under ITNs every night,” she said.
Meanwhile, the judge, Mr Abubakar, also sentenced Mr Isah to life imprisonment after he was found guilty of rape.
Me Benjamin also warned candidates against the application of henna on their fingers to avoid unnecessary interference with the whorls of their fingers which could impede biometric verification.
It is not surprising to see that Biodun Stephen's film "A Simple Lie" trails on that path as well.
“The induction programme, which will be held in two batches, is scheduled to begin from May 7 to May 13 for Batch A, while Batch ‘B’ will hold from May 14 to May 20.
“NEC also suspended the following National Working Committee (NWC) members: Lamidi Apapa, Alhaji Salem Lawal, Favour Reuben, Gbenga Daramola, Samuel Akingbade and Mohammed Akali,’’ the statement also read.
The report focuses on gender disparity in the legal profession in Nigeria.
The communiqué added that the gross statutory revenue of N638.673 billion was received for March 2023.
IPOB laments Supreme Court delay on Nnamdi Kanu
Mr Ajibola attended Owu Baptist Day School and Baptist Boys’ High School both in Abeokuta between 1942 and 1955.
Part of the prayers granted disallowed Chairman Basil Omiyi and all independent non-executive directors from overseeing the company “in an illegal, unfairly, prejudicial and oppressive manner pending the hearing and determination of the petitioners’ motion on notice for interlocutory injunction.”
Chimaroke Nnamani berates proponents of Interim National Govt
Despite being put on trial for alleged N2.5 billion corruption by the Economic and Financial Crime Commission (EFCC), the Speaker of the Ogun State House of Assembly, Olakunle Oluomo, has been reelected.
The governor, candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), also commended INEC for conducting free, fair and credible elections.
“Three of the corpses were taken to the mortuary while those injured were taken to the General Hospital Ogoja by the FRSC officials.
“I call on the male contestants to step down in the interest of peace and understanding if Nigeria and our democracy must advance, my candidature has to be pushed,” she said.
In her welcome address, the UNILAG VC described “UNILAG in Town” as a project borne out of the desire to bring activities from the academic community closer to people.
Mr Gbajabiamila stated this on Tuesday in his speech at the resumption of plenary.
The INEC Returning Officer, Abatcha Melemi of the Federal University Gashua, made the declaration in Potiskum.
Woodberry is well-known to be an ally of another Nigerian international fraudster, Ramon Abbas, alias Hushpuppi, who was jailed last year.
Mr Betara made the pledge in Jalingo, the Taraba State capital, during a condolence visit to the family of the late lawmaker-elect on Sunday.
That’s why I’m running for reelection,” he added.
Government is going to continue of course, Senate is advisory, it’s an executive function, we are not bound by any court of law and government cannot be stopped from giving development to its people.
The Senate on Tuesday confirmed the appointment of AbdulHakeem Mobolaji and six others as members of Governing Board of the Nigerian Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC).
“All aspirants interested in running on the platform of the party should visit the national secretariat in Abuja to obtain their nomination and expression of interest forms.
Now is the time to align all our interests, aspirations, and trust to work together for the common good of Nigerians.
He said during 1964/1965; no fewer than 200 deaths were recorded as a result of election violence.
“It addresses the issues of access and capacity, providing financial scholarships and conditional cash transfers to send girls to school,” she said.
It added that addressing the drastic fall in oil production requires urgent action to end oil theft in the oil-producing areas.
Where and why did all go wrong?
A constitutional lawyer and human rights activist, Mike Ozekhome, in a telephone interview with PREMIUM TIMES, said those provisions that were struck down are dead.
“We hereby write soliciting and yearning for the Nigerian Government’s intercession to rescue and send for an immediate evacuation of the Nigerian students that are stuck in the centre of the ongoing war,” the group said in a letter seen by PREMIUM TIMES.
“So far, I have been feeding myself.
The Commissioner for Information in Delta State, Charles Aniagwu, disclosed this in a news conference in Asaba on Thursday.
The exact date of the incident is unknown, but the clip surfaced online around 9 April.
“The applicants got the nod after meeting all the constitutional and administrative requirements for the grant of Nigerian citizenship.’’
A coalition of members of the House of Representatives from the eight parties that will be represented in the 10th House has agreed to respect the zoning of the leadership of the House by the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC).
Nigerian Army deploys troops in Guinea Bissau for peacekeeping
On the issue of abuse of the court process raised by Mr Tinubu against the petitioners, Atiku argued that his suit was properly filed.
Mr Mamu was alleged to have collected ransoms on behalf of the Boko Haram terrorists from families of hostages, confirmed the amount and facilitated the delivery of the same to the terrorists.
Mr Kazeem said the crash involving a tanker occurred in the early hours of Sunday under the Ibafo pedestrian bridge on the outward Lagos section of the expressway.
The World Health Organization (WHO) has also painted an apocryphal picture of the bloody uprising.
“The Commission cannot afford this kind of distraction,” he said, adding that Mr Arase’s desire to bring sanity, peace and unity in the police sub-sector is already receiving desired results.
• Adegbonmire Adeniyi Ayodele – Ondo Central
For Russian billionaires, Forbes said fortunes were calculated using ownership structures from February 2022, prior to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine and before many made transfers of assets to managers, friends and others in an effort to protect their holdings from sanctions.
Five governors were re-elected in Adamawa, Bauchi, Borno, Gombe, and Yobe states while a new governor was elected for Taraba State.
The country’s Purchasing Manager Index (PMI) came in at 53.8 for the month on increased production level and an improvement in new businesses
At the resumed trial of the case, Olalekan told the court that:
I am glad that we will soon commence our reorientation programme, which properly situates the newcomers and old members with the current norms and practices, current affairs, constitutions, amendments and all of those so that those who have come into the House will be brought to terms with.
He said that the organisation’s constitution was the first document in history to formally recognise health as a human right.
The collation officer for the presidential election in Rivers had adjourned the collation of results at some point over alleged threat to his life by some supporters of a political party.
2023 Election: Nigerian author Chimamanda criticises US for congratulating Tinubu
Ken Nnamani denies reports that his wife died after a cosmetic medical procedure
Summits have also been used, although with less intensity.
He said losing the ability to treat serious bacterial infections is a major threat to public health.
“Nigeria has been chosen as a country to improve cycling, and Abuja has been chosen as one of the five states globally.
“When the Minister of Interior wanted to shut down petrol stations ten kilometres from the border, there was a fuel station close to my house, and I pleaded if he could allow it to keep operating,” he added.
While noting that Ramadan has taught all faithful how to live a selfless and Godly life, Mr Betara, who represents Biu/Bayo/Shani/Kwaya Kusar Federal Constituency of Borno State in the House of Representatives, underscored the need for peaceful co-existence and the unity of Nigeria.
A mob lynched Temitope Olorunfemi in Akure on the morning of 10 April after his car hit some motorcycles, killing two persons.
Mr Biu specifically enjoined fleet and other commercial vehicle operators, as well as private vehicle owners, to accord vehicle maintenance a major priority.
Mbadinuju, ex- Anambra governor, is dead
He noted that often projects are listed in the budget based on political considerations at the expense of economic factors.
The estimated number of malaria deaths stood at 619,000 in 2021 compared to 625,000 in 2020.
Mr Shettima spoke Friday during a meeting with some elected lawmakers including Tajudeen Abbas, whose ambition to be House Speaker has been endorsed by Mr Tinubu and the ruling party, APC.
“As part of the grand design, they are circulating a fake doctored audio call.
The story’s ability to retain viewers’ interest throughout the runtime is commendable.
INSECURITY: UK pledges improved intelligence sharing with Nigeria
‘In my eight years in office, we can say that we have created over 65,000 direct and indirect jobs for the people.
The WHO, Director of Maternal, Newborn, Child and Adolescent Health and Ageing, Anshu Banerjee, said pregnant women and newborns continue to die at unacceptably high rates worldwide.
He argued the properties which include “Hotel Apartment Community, Burj Khalifa lying, being and situate at, Plot 160 Municipality NO 345-7562, Sky View Building No 1, Property No 401, Floor 4, Dubai U.A.E.”, were suspected to have been derived from unlawful activities.
Of the more than 780 children who have been abducted for ransom, more than 61 children are still being held in captivity two years after they were abducted by gunmen.
“Freedom of expression includes the public’s right to receive, and the right of those who express themselves through a medium of communication, to impart the greatest possible diversity of information and ideas.”
However, Peter Obi and his party’s Presidential Campaign Council described the leaked audio of the conversation between him and the cleric as ‘faked and doctored’ and that appropriate legal actions would be taken against Peoples Gazette, an online newspaper that first released the audio.
Among other prayers, the petitioners urged the tribunal to “determine that, at the time of the presidential election held on February 25, 2023, the 2nd and 3rd respondents (Tinubu and Shettima) were not qualified to contest the election.
He is alert, in-depth in his political analysis and is still looking forward of a Nigeria of the dream of he and his Nigerian leaders of the post-colonial era.
Also echoing the call for change, she said, “The profession needs a balanced voice – it’s time for change.”
“I will not be teleguided by anybody when I become the Speaker, but I will cooperate but not compromise the independence and integrity of the legislature,” said the aspirant.
At WAEC Testing and Training Centre 1 and 2, in Ogba, parents and candidates were made to wait outside the premises despite its proximity to the main road.
The first documented case in the country is reported to have occurred in 1969 and the virus was named after the town of Lassa, Borno State in Nigeria.
In the filings, Atiku’s lawyer, Chris Uche, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), said Mr Tinubu forfeited a sum of $460,000 as a compromise agreement.
The theme of the event focused on the future of the Commonwealth as a body and the role of the youth.
The other speakers will also bring to bear their rich and varied backgrounds in the private sector, international development, policy advisory, and research.
The Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, therefore, ordered security agencies to investigate the attacks and arrest the perpetrators.
“It is worth noting that Jibrin has been in charge of the federal government’s budget in the Senate when the 9th National Assembly returned the country’s budget cycle to January-December, which greatly helped President Mumammadu Buhari-led administration in achieving its economic goals.
“Spiritual” warfare in the shape of sacrificial rams to keep “disloyal” communities under restraint – in short, intimidation yet again!
He said Mr Chukwuma, the suspect, confessed to being the sector commander of the syndicate of the IPOB and its militant wing, Eastern Security Network (ESN) in Mbaise Community in the state and subsequently assisted the operatives in arresting three members of his syndicate at their criminal hideout, while others escaped.
He lost the election to the incumbent governor, Udom Emmanuel of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).
He repeatedly stated that no one should vote for him based on Tribe or Religion, but rather on the assessment of Character, Competence, Capacity, Credibility and Compassion you can trust to create a New Nigeria!
The evidence will show that he did so to cover up crimes relating to the 2016 election,” Mr Bragg told the press on Tuesday after the arraignment.
It told the court in its application that the property at Plot J 37A 218 Close, 2nd Avenue, Banana Island, Ikoyi, Lagos, was “reasonably suspected to be proceeds of an unlawful activity.”
Also, present at the event was the Vice President-elect, Kashima Shettima who described Mrs Bala Usman as an “iron lady and a lady of courage” and added “I don’t think I have such courage to write a such book”
This, he said will strengthen preventive measures and improve coverage of malaria case management services.
Mr Gemade, a former senator, contested the governorship primary election against Hyacinth Alia, the Benue State governor-elect.
Members of the Board will directly receive your complaints, deliberate on them and provide you feedback.
These systems make use of techniques considered state-of-the-art in the field, known as Software Defined Radars.
Pressure will come from east to west to north to south.
A 10-year-old boy was swept away by flood water in a community, says a government official.
He said the continuous discrimination against polytechnic graduates, whom he described as technologists, has set the country back in areas of technology-driven development.
The revised code, which was updated on 23 March, has its foreword written by the Minister of State for Health, Department of Health and Social Care, Maria Caulfield, and her counterpart in charge of Foreign Commonwealth and Development Office for Asia and Middle East, Amanda Milling.
The same faith ticket of Messrs Tinubu and Shettima already created a situation where the president and vice president are Muslims.
Mr Baba said the order was to forestall further occurrences of police building collapse and prevent loss of lives and property of police personnel in the barracks.
Mr Buhari “sympathised with the government and people of Ogun State as they mourn their son and illustrious citizen for the educational and social development he brought to his community and environs.”
The Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, made this known in Washington DC during his interactions with some policy institutes in the US capital.
In January 2018, 16-year-old Susan obtained emergency travel documentation through the British Council in Nigeria.
“It could be recalled that the sum of seventy million naira was alleged to have been illegally sourced from each of the 44 Local Governments for that purpose, a case of which is still pending before the Anti-Corruption Agencies.’’
For Obioma Ezenwobodo, another lawyer, although Mr Ohadoma’s action of grabbing the debtor’s phone was inappropriate, robbery does not suffice in the case.
He and his team have, however, said he is healthy enough to be president.
IPOB declares sit-at-home in South-east
Mr Omotosho held that NBC, not being a court of law, had no power to impose sanctions as punishment on broadcast stations.
It said according to the report, global progress in reducing deaths of pregnant women, mothers and babies has flatlined for eight years due to decreasing investments in maternal and newborn health.
Mr Osawaru promised to deliver dividends of democracy to his constituency.
This must be halted immediately.
He urged aggrieved politicians to seek judicial interpretation.
The Inspector-General of Police, Usman Alkali (IGP) would later order an investigation into the “weighty allegations” against the officers.
“We pray God to give him eternal rest and we console his family members to bear the loss with fortitude,” he added.
• Manu Haruna Taraba Central
Polling Units 33, 34, 35, 36, 37 and 88 of the same ward also experienced a similar situation as voters came out in trickles to vote.
At a point in the struggle we were speaking like a dozen times a day on phone!
Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, made the disclosure after the Council meeting presided over by President Muhammmadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, on Wednesday.
Peter Obi, Labour Party say ‘religious war’ audio is ‘fake doctored’, threaten legal action
It is not clear if the status is equated to citizenship of the country.
Forex shortage tips FrieslandCampina Nigerian unit into record quarterly loss
The Oba of Benin, Ewuare II, has notified the Netherlands Government about Nigeria’s Government Gazette recognising and vesting custody and management of repatriated looted Benin artefacts in the Oba of Benin.
Her case was heard including the circumstances of her marriage, the judge issued a decision sustaining the charge of deportation and upholding the INS’ denial of Ms Brooks’ request to waive the filing of the joint petition.
The “most searched” queries are simply the most popular terms for a specific period, ranked in order by volume of searches.
Not surprisingly, therefore, President Buhari declined his assent to Bill No.
The judge further noted that Mr Ekpenyong “is clothed with requisite locus standi to institute and maintain this action.”
“Nigerians need to feel the impact of our party.
The document noted that according to federal law in the US, the granting of a hardship waiver for an individual who fails to submit a joint petition for removal of conditional status is reserved to the discretion of the Secretary of Homeland Security, thus not subject to review by the court of appeals.
We need peace in Igboland,” he said.
Mr Tinubu and his campaign council have yet to comment to either confirm or deny the allegations.
You cannot be working for just four days a week and earn full salaries.
Mr Moghalu said Oguta River Port was not on the budget prior to his appointment but had been brought back to the budget.
In the short video, Mr Akinosi was seen charging at Thomas who was recording the drama with her phone, saying “Madam, if you do that I am going to injure you.”
Traditional rulers including second Emirs have been found guilty of aiding and abetting terrorism especially in Zamfara state and other north-western states.
The next biggest party in the Red Chamber is the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) which now has 36 senators-elect.
She said this had affected enrolment retention and completion rate of the girl-child.
It said Port Harcourt experienced the highest percentage increase at 22.7 per cent, followed by Calabar Municipal at 14.7 per cent, Bayside Mbakpa at 13.7 per cent, and Kano at 13.3 per cent.
“We also use this opportunity to call on the federal government for assistance to ameliorate the perennial challenges,” Mr Oresanya said.
“Nigeria is very far from meeting national sufficiency in animal feed production,” he added.
Chimamandi represents recent generations of Nigerian intelligentsias in the diaspora.
The trial also addressed evidence of practices unrelated to the gas dispute, as the government sought to prove that P&ID figures had a track record of illicit activities in Nigeria.
Our correspondent learnt that one of the victims, an attendant at AWABAT filling station in Ijokun, was shot in the head on Friday night.
He was also Secretary to the Kano State Government in the Second Republic under the administration of Governor Sabo Bakin-Zuwo.
Every first of May also known as May Day is set aside to celebrate workers and labourers for their work.
Other aspirants for the two offices and their supporters have criticised the nominations on the zoning formula adopted by the party.
It was the first among the five petitions received by the court to be called for hearing.
“The Company maintains that the petition lacks proper basis and is premised on false allegations,” Seplat Energy said in a statement issued after the court ruling.
However, it was difficult to arraign the suspect before the court accordingly, because he was not in detention.
APM prayed the court to declare Atiku as the president-elect, having polled the second highest votes.
“The Federal Ministry of Transportation had two memos today, which I presented on behalf of the ministry; one had to do with the provision of scanners at all railway stations all over the country.
After being presented with symbolic regalia, Welby placed the St Edward’s Crown on his head and the congregation cried out “God save the King”.
The suspect, in tears, claimed that her actions were orchestrated by the devil.
The commission said Mr Ari’s action was an usurpation of the powers of the Returning Officer empowered by law to collate and announce the result of the election.
“The reason our armed forces remain so close is that the relationship is being renewed again and again since independence because we have worked together to address challenges like maritime insecurity in the Gulf of Guinea or terrorism in the Lake Chad basin and we will continue to do so.
SERAP is also seeking “an order of mandamus directing and compelling INEC to prosecute all arrested electoral offenders in the 2023 general election in the custody of law enforcement and anticorruption agencies.”
He said the suit started from the Jigawa High Court, initiated by one Rabiu Aliyu against Jude Okeke and three others, in which Mr Njoku was not a party to the suit.
The Acting Commissioner of Police (CP) in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Ahmed Musa, has met with leaders of the Hausa and Gbagyi communities in Gwarinpa following a recent clash in the area.
“What we’ve done is to ensure that registration is only conducted in our own offices.
The arrest followed a complaint by the prosecution lawyer, Ezekiel Rinamsomte, that Mr Njoku, prior to the commencement of the criminal case filed against him, had verbally threatened him as counsel in the matter.
“The fatal crash is blameable on several factors including fatigue, which must have made one of the drivers sleep on the wheels,’’ he stated.
They claimed he then allocated the properties to his aides and cronies.
“But it’s an individual choice.
With a history dating back to its establishment by John Adams, James Bowdoin, John Hancock and others, the Academy has a long and illustrious tradition of projects and studies that advance the public good.
The outgoing governor of Zamfara State, Bello Matawalle, has urged President Muhammadu Buhari not to grant ‘study leave’ to the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Godwin Emefiele, a few days before the inauguration of a new administration.
They cited a report of the ward collation officer for Ward 4 of Egor State Constituency, Sunday Igbinosa, confirming that there were disturbances and an attempt to snatch the result sheet, Form EC8B (1).
Mr Wike had declared Wednesday a public holiday, calling on the people of the state to come out en masse to offer the visiting President-Elect a rousing welcome.
Mr Akeredolu, who recently returned to the country from his annual leave, called on the APC NWC to urgently convey a meeting of the NEC of the party for a ” robust National Caucus/Stakeholders parley to agree on terms that would strengthen our great party.”
Delivering a ruling, the judge, Peter Kekemeke, held that the court lacked the jurisdiction to entertain the suit.
While parading the suspects, the Commissioner of Police in the state, Olanrewaju Oladimeji, said their arrests were from a joint strategic effort to deal with criminal elements in the state.
He reiterated that the day was significant as it provided workers, employers and employees the opportunity to rub minds on successes and challenges towards the enhancement of industrial peace, harmony and growth in the nation.
The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) says it is confident that the decision of the Federal High Court, Abuja on the suit filed by Aisha Dahiru of the APC seeking validation of her illegal declaration as governor-elect of Adamawa State, would be in its favour.
They also settled for Tajudeen Abbas (North-west) and Ben Kalu (South-east) for the speakership and deputy speakership of the House of Representatives.
“One thing I want to assure you is that the PDP has the mechanism to solve its problems,” he stated.
• Ekpenyong Asuquo – Cross River South
The Federal High Court, Abuja has declared the sacking of Ifeanyi Ararume as Non-Executive Chairman of the Nigeria National Petroleum Company Limited (NNPCL) as illegal and unlawful.
Mr Osifeso said that the operatives attached to Moniya Area Command, under Oyo State Police Command, while on lawful intelligence-led stop-and-search around a major black spot, were attacked in the line of duty on Monday at about 10.15 a.m.
The Lagos State government has inaugurated a 22-member committee to coordinate activities for the 29 May swearing-in of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, and his deputy, Obafemi Hamzat, for their second term.
“Monday sit-at-home has become an excuse for workers to stop coming to work on Mondays.
The Executive Vice Chairman of NCC, Umar Danbatta, submitted the documents to the committee, which is also investigating accruals and utilisation of funds in the USFP.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
She urged Edo residents to be vigilant and to consult with their doctors to discuss suitable alternatives.
“I am not speaking for the 10th National Assembly, that is yet to be inaugurated, but I know having met many of our senators-elect, they are all ready to start work immediately we are inaugurated and sworn in.”
It maintained that there “was no intimidation and harassment, massive thumb-printing of ballot papers, destruction of electoral materials,.. mutilations, cancellations and overwriting on result sheets, inflation, deflation of scores and wrong entries in result sheets as alleged by the petitioners” during the February presidential election.
“Mr Mohammed said INEC’s decision to withhold the upload was because of a suspected cyberattack.
He said: “I indeed bought two fresh human legs, but I was not involved in the murder of the victim.
They will be sentenced on 5 May but face up to 10 years in jail.
The report estimates that globally, there were a combined 4.5 million maternal, neonatal deaths and stillbirths in 2020.
Mr Lawan said the ninth National Assembly successfully passed many critical bills that had become jinxed under the previous assembly.
The prosecutor, Rotimi Oyedepo, made an application before Justice Daniel Osiagor, to release all documentary evidence or processes in the suit, following the decision of an appellate court.
He said that the meeting was to review the implementation and update on the spending on the projects so far and approval for 2023 projects for the same scheme.
Earlier, the author, Ms Usman detailed her experience with the former minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, and other issues while heading the ports as the first woman to occupy that position.
It stressed its implicit confidence in Julius Abure-led National Working Committee (NWC).
Citing relevant provisions of the Nigerian constitution and the Police Act, Mr Okafor said the police have a statutory duty to investigate Mr Tinubu for alleged perjury contained in INEC’s Form EC9 sworn to by him on 14 June 2022 concerning his Guinean citizenship.
It is the duty of the courts to provide a level playing field for all parties and not allow any side to use the judicial system side by side with self-help to the disadvantage of the other.
PREMIUM TIMES reported how the INEC Resident Electoral Commissioner in Adamawa, Hudu Ari, Sunday morning, controversially declared Mrs Dahiru, popularly called Binani, the winner of the election.
Oxford, in collaboration with the Serum Institute of India, will produce up to 200 million doses of the vaccine – called R21/Matrix-M – annually with a vaccine factory being constructed in Accra, Ghana, the BBC reports.
The Confederation of African Football launched the U17 event as a tournament in Mali in 1995, and the Golden Eaglets lost to West African rivals, the Black Starlets of Ghana, at that maiden edition.
All of these put together, do they amount to over confidence and complacency on the part of the opposition party?
“This information makes the two batches of Norvasc 5 mg tablets substandard.
Atiku visits Orji Kalu, condoles him over wife’s death
Meanwhile, one of the candidates who arrived at the centre late, Misturah Qosim, said she resided in the Ipaja area of the city and pleaded with the examination body for reconsideration of her matter.
He expressed confidence that the party would be victorious in the tribunal’s ongoing presidential election petition.
He admonished Nigerians to also report suspicious activities and persons to the N-Alert application.
Mr Osinbajo also spoke on the division along religious lines and urged all candidates to sheathe their swords.
He said: “In a democracy, people must be allowed to vote and the votes must count; people of Bayelsa must ensure that persons with violent tendencies are not entrusted with leadership.
Suspected political thugs reportedly attacked some Igbo and destroyed their properties in various parts of the state for voting against candidates of a political party in the state during the general elections.
But the Karimjo people, represented by Kennedy James, said no attack was aimed at the Wurkanawa people.
“This is the third major enforcement we are carrying out in this very location as we did two years ago and even last year.
It is common knowledge that as the Commander-in-Chief, Buhari has empowered and emboldened the Fulani pastoralists in their expansionist agenda including killings.
According to him, Mr Jere has done this to the best of his ability in the last year plus, which has led to most applicants booking online for passports.
He made several trips to the UK and France before the commencement of campaigns in 2022.
The trial had begun before Justice Aikawa and witnesses were still being led in evidence, until Mr Aikawa was transferred out of the Lagos division.
He listed Chief Whip of the Senate, Orji Kalu, and a former APC National Organising Secretary, Osita Izunaso, among senators-elect from the region capable of leading the Red Chamber.
Ms Adichie, in an open letter to US President, Joe Biden, said “Many believe that the INEC chair has been “compromised”.
Particularly remarkable about you is your love for the environment, importantly your lifelong crusade for sustainability and biodiversity.
A five-member panel of the Supreme Court led by John Okoro, last week, fixed 11 May for the hearing of the case.
The Presidential Election Petition Court fixed Friday for further hearing on Peter Obi’s petition.
The publicity secretary said that his party and its governor-elect, Caleb Mutfwang, believed in the unity, peace and progress of Plateau.
Another officer was also filmed shoving a woman, said to be the man’s wife, into a car.
The FCT “beyond being the Capital of Nigeria has no special status over and above the other 36 states of the federation to require a candidate in the presidential election to obtain at least 25 per cent of the votes cast in the FCT before being declared winner of the presidential election,” the electoral umpire explained.
JAMB enjoined candidates to locate their centres before the day of their examination so as not to arrive late at the centres.
Nigeria’s voice subscriptions rose 13.87% in Q4 2022
Mr Condé, who is currently in exile in Turkey following a 2021 coup that ousted him, is a close friend of Mr Tinubu.
A High Court in Maiduguri, Borno State, on Wednesday, fined a man N100,000 for about N20 million fraud perpetrated against a foreign organisation.
The researchers also confirmed that R21/Matrix-M vaccine has undergone clinical trials in the UK, Thailand, and several African countries, including an ongoing phase III trial in Burkina Faso, Kenya, Mali and Tanzania, which the said has enrolled 4,800 children.
He expressed concern that the idea of delay on issuance of passport that was almost becoming a controversy was not in the best interest of Nigerians.
Second batch of Nigerian evacuees from Sudan arrive Abuja
• Fadeyi Oluwole Olubiyi Osun Central
“We are going to work to ensure that things get better for Nigerian youths,’’ Mr Gorau said.
He also commended the methodology being put in place by the commission to conduct accurate and reliable census, especially the massive deployment of technology that is capable of delivering world class census and laying a sustainable basis for future censuses
The Magistrate Court, on 23 March, granted bail to the four sisters, after spending nearly two weeks in prison, but refused their brother’s bail application.
The Bauchi State chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Babayo Misau, has been suspended over alleged anti-party activities.
Many of the other aspirants have rejected the nomination of Messrs Akpabio and Jibrin by the APC and questioned the zoning formula on which it is based.
The prayer session was led by the Chief Imam of the mosque, Abubakar Sulaiman.
Very down to earth.
I have never seen a road constructed where only the Muslims are allowed to pass.
But Seyi Tinubu’s connection has only just been revealed by Bloomberg after the UK enacted a new law requiring foreign companies investing in the country’s property market to declare their beneficial owners.
“There were reports of destruction of used ballot papers and vandalization of entire polling units in some states.
“President Conde invited Tinubu to the independence anniversary.
In his ruling, the judge, Adegboyega Adebusoye, asked the defendants to enjoy their administrative bail till the next hearing as he adjourned the case till May 18 for proper hearing.
Earlier when the matter was called for arraignment, the prosecuting counsel, Victor Okoye, informed that he had an amended charge.
Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni expressed her “full solidarity” with the people in the affected regions.
He said: “I have no doubt that every willing applicant who may have vended PIN would be allowed to register for the DE.
A boy lost his life, we don’t know how many okadas or property we will have to look for.”
“Supposing he didn’t win the election, would he be in the position to zone the Senate Presidency?” he said.
The suit filed on behalf of the plaintiffs by their lawyers Kolawole Oluwadare, Andrew Nwankwo, and Ms Blessing Ogwuche, read in part: “The grounds for imposing a fine of N5m on Channels TV fail to meet the requirements of legality, necessity, and proportionality.”
“I see the confidence in him and he has proven it, so I am optimistic that we will become victorious,” he said.
Mr Ramaphosa said the decision to exit the ICC is largely because of the manner in which the ICC has been seen to be dealing with some problems, which he did not name.
He said the Vice-Chancellor, Simeon Bamire, and the entire community were saddened over the murder of the student.
The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Sunday declared Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate as the winner of Sokoto South Senatorial District.
The Chairperson of the Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NIDCOM), Abike Dabiri-Erewa, in a tweet on Friday said “while @nemanigeria and the Nigerian Mission in Sudan have put in place necessary arrangements, any flight now is gravely risky.
Physical attacks were the most common, accounting for 47 per cent of the incidents, followed by denial of access (13 per cent) and equipment damage/seizure (7 per cent)
When you compared the number of workers and those paid in February, they are not up to one out of three per cent of the whole workers,” Mr Halliru said.
The governor, who was represented by the Head of Service, Onyii Wamah, said that the retirement age had been extended from 60 years to 65 years and years of service from 35 to 40 years.
It is not clear, for now, what led to the latest coronation.
The woman recalled she joined Mr Massaquoi in the Gambia, where the peace talks were taking place and later came with him to Liberia.
Your fight will be my fight because I will always fight for you.
“On behalf of FrieslandCampina WAMCO Nigeria PLC, I hereby tender our unreserved apology to the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) as well as to the Christian community at large for the recent Good Friday social media post on the company’s social media handle,” the statement said.
APC asks election petition court to dismiss PDP, Atiku’s petition against Tinubu’s victory
If anything, our inability to comply with provisions of our party’s constitution under the leadership of HE Sen. Abdullahi Adamu represents a betrayal of trust and the confidence reposed in us as members of the National Working Committee individually and collectively.
Dominic Ogakwu, the convener of the group, made the call on Friday during a press briefing in Abuja.
The PSC spokesperson, however, warned that the commission would not tolerate frivolous and fictitious media claims.
And its scope goes beyond these six countries, paving the way for other countries to facilitate cross-border access to services and greater movement of people and goods.”
He also called for the intervention of the Chairman of the party, Abdulahi Adamu, who is from the North-central.
APC’s Idris wins Kebbi governorship seat
The context of the NASSP is to provide a safety net system that allows the Government to effectively target and deliver programs to poor households more efficiently.
Why I insisted on putting it is because it was not like a side conversation he had.
However, the 2023 polls recorded no more than 28 deaths as a result of election violence.
The source said other companies including the Nigeria Liquified Natural Gas Limited also have pipelines dedicated to them within the same neighbourhood.
The officer reportedly shot the victim to death for refusing to pay N100 bribe at a checkpoint.
Furthermore, the party said the thugs are trying to prevent Mr Cole from getting vital documents that will aid the governorship election petition.
“$1.2 million is what we’re being charged for all the 40 buses.
On the first day of the return of Finland’s Turku Court of Appeal to Liberia, all two defence witnesses said although an accused former Sierra Leonean warlord was in Liberia in 2001, it was only for “peace talks.”
Mr Fashola disclosed this while briefing State House correspondents on the outcome of the meeting of the Federal Executive Council (FEC) on Wednesday in Abuja.
Direct Entry: Candidates besiege JAMB office, allege poor “inhumane” treatment
Several new and returning lawmakers, attended the meeting which started at about 10 p.m.
The former Managing Director of the Nigerian Ports Authority, Hadiza Bala Usman, has given reasons why she refused to give her principal, the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, a birthday gift.
Several government facilities – such as offices of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) – have been targets of attacks by gunmen who set them ablaze.
The lawmaker added that “the matrix, procedure and condition of the disbursement of the Cabotage Vessel Finance Fund are obscure and not transparent, and not wholly in accordance with the Coastal and Inland Shipping (Cabotage) Act, 2003.”
PREMIUM TIMES reported that the NLC in the state, Tuesday, resumed its earlier suspended indefinite strike action in the state over unpaid salaries and pensions.
The 2023 general election, specifically the presidential election, has been very divisive along ethnic and religious lines.
Mr Ekwo awarded N5 billion as damages in favour of Mr Ararume.
The developed countries diagnosed more persons living with the condition, hence recording higher cases than its counterparts,” he said.
For a nation struggling to find its way in the political maelstrom after its exit from the European Union and maintain its standing in a new world order, its supporters say the royal family provides an international draw, a vital diplomatic tool, and a means of staying on the world stage.
The Court of Appeal acceded to his request by dismissing the remaining seven counts, and ordering his release from custody in its judgement handed down on 13 October 2022.
Among the listed properties was “Grove End Road, London”.
Experts have privately expressed doubts to ISS Today that the law could be amended in time for the BRICS summit.
He said the troops rescued 21 kidnapped victims, neutralised three IPOB/ESN terrorists and apprehended 12 others with cache of arms and ammunition.
According to him, the new action plan will help prove that Nigeria is working in tandem with international best practices with regards to the protection of human riights.
For more information or to request an interview, please contact us on: +2348160537202
It is self-repudiating for one to argue, therefore, that the Speaker of the House of Representatives cannot also emerge from the North East.
According to the Civil Defence, 14 rivers are flooded in Emilia-Romagna alone.
The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) will today conduct supplementary elections for two governorship seats and 93 legislative seats across 24 states of the federation.
He said the suspect was arrested in Ameke-Oduma Community in Aninri Local Government Area with the assistance of the residents of the area.
The governors recommended a zoning formula for the offices.
The Federation Accounts Allocation Committee (FAAC) has shared a total of N714.629 billion as March 2023 federation revenue to the federal, state, and local government councils and other relevant agencies in the country.
And where the credit facilities exist, the interest rates are outrageous, between 25-30 per cent,” he added.
The Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) and Centre for Journalism Innovation and Development (CJID) have filed a lawsuit against President Muhammadu Buhari, asking the court to “declare arbitrary, illegal and unconstitutional the N5m fine imposed on Channels Television over a recent interview with the Labour Party vice-presidential candidate, Datti Baba-Ahmed.”
MONROVIA, Liberia—Finland’s Turku Court of Appeal has concluded the second phase of hearings in Liberia of witnesses for Gibril Massaquoi, the Sierra Leonean man accused of war crimes in Liberia.
In a Sunday meeting between the presidents of both countries in Saudi Arabia, Nigeria’s President Muhammadu Buhari said the ongoing fight is unwelcome and unfortunate.
Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar has responded to the petition filed by the Minister of State for Labour and Employment, Festus Keyamo, at the Code of Conduct Bureau (CCB).
The man had reportedly refused to offer a bribe to Mr Ebri, a police inspector.
The US district court for Central California where prosecutors charged him jailed him for 11 years and ordered him to pay $1.7 million restitution in November 2022.
“We are opposed to consequential order of acquittal,”
“The question that comes to mind is: who should approach the Court where a particular law is not in the best interest of Nigeria as a country or National interest?
“I look forward to contributing my quota towards achieving the Chief of the Naval Staff’ mission of optimising the deployment of the Nigerian Navy in the performance of our constitutional roles and undertaking of assigned tasks,” he said.
Conferred with the Honorary Degree of Doctor of Laws (LL.D) of the University of Buckingham by its Chancellor, the Rt.
While the minister demanded an extension of tenure of the companies providing capital dredging services without due process, he got approval for the restoration of an expired service boat contract.
The probable cause of the crash is wrongful overtaking and speeding.
They recommended the zoning of the Senate President to either the South-east or the South-south regions and the Speaker of the House of Representatives to either the North-west or the North-central regions.
Following the announcement, several top aspirants in the speakership race allied to fight the “imposition” of Messrs Abbas and Kalu.
“The minister made the clarification on Wednesday in Washington DC, while reacting to the report published in some online platforms,” NAN reported.
The Presidential Candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the 2023 polls, Atiku Abubakar, has described the purported declaration of Adamawa State governorship election results as a game plan to upturn the democratic wishes of the people of the state.
He said that the multiple road accidents in Ipetu Ijesa, in Oriade Local Government Area of the state had claimed six lives while seven others sustained various injuries.
As the Ukrainian-Russia war revealed the underbelly of Nigerian students’ relations with the outside world, the orgy of war in Sudan is revealing yet another ugly one.
“We quickly activated our rescue team to go there and on getting there they saw it was a wall that fell on artisans working around the area.
He said “if the party decide that the position of Speaker is nor going to the North-central.
They testified that employees gained access to privileged government documents, moved undeclared cash across borders, sought to influence a witness, tried to destroy evidence, and did business with individuals they knew to have previously paid bribes.
“We barely feed well right now.
He said that the state cannot dissolve the union, adding that such matters are handled by the Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment.
ICAN honoured the FIRS chief in the non-members category at the institute’s 2023 annual awards, the spokesperson to Mr Nami, Johannes Oluwatobi Wojuola, said in a statement emailed to PREMIUM TIMES on Sunday.
The LP presidential flag-bearer and supporters have come under attacks and criticisms for claiming he won the election without providing concrete evidence.
From the first day of the election, the speaker, who is returning his fourth term, had 7, 379 votes while Mr Ogundele had 6,411.
Some of the beneficiaries who spoke with the NAN commended the federal government and the ministry for the concern shown.
Mr Ozekhome, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) and a law professor, urged the court to either grant the IPOB leader bail or order his transfer to the Kuje Correctional Centre, Abuja, for him to be easily accessible pending the hearing and determination of the substantive appeal.
“Those provisions are now vacuous, hollow.
The judge, James Omotoso, had ordered the APC to conduct a fresh primary election in line with the provisions of the law and guidelines and constitution of the APC.
“I am here on a private visit to see the governor and His Royal Highness, the Emir of Gwandu because we are coming to the end of this administration.
The incident happened in Nzam, a community in Anambra West Local Government Area of the state.
It is for these reasons that we appeal to revered religious leaders especially in the North not to be part of the grand design of the state apparatus to further increase the religious and ethnic divide in the country.
For the first time, 20 sitting Governors lost their states, mostly those of the ruling party.
Mr Abayomi said a sample was collected from the newborn for investigation in line with the standard protocol of contact tracing.
Mr Soludo used the medium to direct the state workers to end the Monday sit-at-home which he noted was becoming a cheat on the government.
“There is an increasing affordability problem for citizens with regard to vehicle acquisition, especially by the middle class of Nigerian society.
“Same is applicable to Lokoja; so, we are taking it from two perspectives.
Additionally, he is friends with several afrobeats musicians, many of whom take advantage of his network.
The members of the coalition are drawn from the APC, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the Labour Party (LP), the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP), the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), the Social Democratic Party (SDP), the African Democratic Congress (ADC) and the Young Progressive Party (YPP).
‘‘This growth was fuelled by a surge in demand for digital services as people worldwide turned to technology to stay connected, work remotely, and access essential goods and services largely due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
The prosecutor, through a written application, urged the court to remand the defendants at the Olokuta Correctional Centre pending the issuance of advice from the office of the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP).
“If the president comes from the South-west and the vice president from the North-east, if not because of the peculiarity of the Muslim-Muslim ticket, I am sure based on the contribution of the North-west the senate president would have been what we will ideally ask for,” Mr Abbas said.
That is our position for now,” he said, when asked if the region would drop their senate presidency ambition after the APC zoned it to the South-south.
Ongoing fighting in Sudan complicates efforts to evacuate foreigners
Mr Blinken said he looks forward to continuing to strengthen the US-Nigeria partnership which is built on shared interests and strong people-to-people ties.
The Minister of Communication and Digital Economy, Isa Pantami, said the deployment of the new network would support the nation’s security institutions to build trust and enhance their reputation.
A contingent of 20 players and 10 officials departed the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja, on Saturday night aboard a Turkish Airline flight and travelled through Istanbul before heading to the “land of the Pampas.”
“We are more than willing and ready to cooperate with you to achieve this set objective,” it said.
While the election will be holding in 23 PUs in the Kebbi North senatorial elections, voters in 83 PUs will be voting for the Zamfara Central senatorial election.
Wednesday marks the 30th anniversary of World Press Freedom Day which was proclaimed by the UNESCO in 1993.
“Whatever you call it, whatever anybody wants to make of it, it is fine with me.
We demand they put a stop to the abuse of power and respect the rights and privileges of other political parties, particularly, the Labour Party to contest for power,” he said.
“I count on the active participation of Nigeria in its practical implementation.
As the world marks this year’s World Immunisation Week, global leaders have been urged to mobilise support for continued immunisation against vaccine-preventable diseases across the world, and particularly in low- and middle-income nations including Nigeria.
Mr Wike said during Mr Tinubu’s presidential campaign visit to the state, he indicated his intention to have him (Mr Tinubu), then-presidential candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), commission some strategic projects in the state after the general elections.
You need every person.
“The injured have already been conveyed to Kekere Hospital, Kabba Junction, Zariagi by our personnel who carried out the rescue operation.
With Mr Tinubu’s victory mired in unprecedented litigation, the election petition court commences sitting today, Monday, to determine the disputes.
• Orji Uzor Kalu – Abia NortH
It is gratifying that you expressed your consternation over these vetoes, and have already shown signs that you will take action.
“Benue is very capable of feeding the whole nation, so we are not just the food basket of the nation by name and I am hoping that we will up our game in agriculture and take care of the rest as well.
“The president had earlier approved an expenditure of a little more than N20 billion on the project,’’ he said.
The Indomie Instant Noodles consumed in Nigeria is produced locally by Dufil Prima Foods Limited and had produced Indomie Instant Noodle in Nigeria for almost three decades.
President Muhammadu Buhari has sacked Saratu Umar as the executive secretary of the Nigeria Investment Promotion Commission, ending a crisis that has pitched the sacked boss against her senior officers and affected the operation of the commission.
The spokesperson said there were about six channels where citizens could make such complaints.
Seven other parties with membership in the 10th session of the House have about 163 members-elect.
Both Atiku, Mr Obi and three other political parties with their candidates are contesting the outcome of the presidential polls, alleging irregularities ranging from INEC’s failure to upload election results from polling stations in real-time to its IRev portal.
He said that Abdullahi Dahiru of the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) polled 410 votes to place as distant third.
“Nigeria is so much fun, I had a fabulous time here, and I’ll be back.
Buhari approves new university for Delta, Omo-Agege lauds president
“In this budget, 4.98 percent each goes to Education and Healthcare, as against the 15 percent WHO and UNESCO standard that was signed by the FG in the Abuja Declaration in 2010”.
“We wish to inform the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) that the social media post has since been withdrawn.”
I was even begging the bishop to help me to ask his people to vote which is what I was doing for six months.
Curious members of the public had speculated that the reason for sacking Mr Mamman within two years of his appointment was likely to be more than cabinet reshuffling.
On his strategy for the security of the state, Mr Ogundare said, “We have ensured that all exit and entry routes in Ekiti are well policed and I have also directed more reinforcement and enough deployment to flashpoints.
The latest edition of Stanbic IBTC Bank Nigeria PMI, which measures factory activity in the country, puts Nigeria’s purchasing manager index for March at 42.3 compared to 44.7 for February.
”Only for the lawyer to claim that I had informed someone about him asking me for money, he was angry, He then asked me to place the money on a table, I did and he took a picture of the money and the police came in and I was arrested.”
• Salihu Mustapha – Kwara Central
In 2004, the newly appointed Registrar joined FUTA as Assistant Registrar and rose through the ranks to become the Deputy Registrar in 2017 and Director in the Registry in 2022.
He explained that the future of the Benin Bronzes and artefacts were in the gazette, adding that the ownership, custody and management of the artefacts were spelt out clearly in the gazette.
The delegation also paid a condolence visit to the family of Aminu Dantata over the death of his wife, Rabi Dantata, in Kano.
In 2015, a few months before the end of former President Goodluck Jonathan’s tenure, Ms Umar was sacked for displaying gross incompetence and ineptitude in public service.
This placed Mr Dangote as the 125th richest man in the world and he is easily the largest cement producer in Africa.
He added that the House will review the legal framework establishing the agencies to prevent future occurrences.
“While many Nigerian workers and pensioners have not been paid by state governors for several months and struggle to make ends meet, former governors continue to collect double emoluments and enjoy opulent lifestyles.”
Also, the President has directed investigation by the Inspector General of Police, Director-General of the Department of State Services, and the Commandant General of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defense Corps, of the role of their officers in aiding and abetting the conduct/actions of Barr.
The former President then rushed to the court.
It is therefore difficult to justify this high import duty on a major input of the construction industry,” he said.
Ike Ekweremadu, who turned 61 on 12 May, is serving a nine-year jail term in the UK having been found guilty of conspiracy for organ trafficking
Former Head of State, Yakubu Gowon, has appealed to Nigerians to abide by whatever the decisions of the Supreme Court may be on the disputes arising from the last general elections.
The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has described the victory of Governor Ahmadu Fintiri in the Adamawa State governorship election as a momentous triumph for democracy and the expression of the will of the people.
The agency has hit many broadcast stations with exorbitant fines for various breaches of the broadcasting code, including the promotion of hate speech – a hazy concept that many rights activists argue is being deployed to curtail free press.
Unlike the presidential election, the governorship elections didn’t record many upsets.
“The summary indicates that a total of 185 major electoral offences were reported during the presidential and National Assembly elections with 203 arrests made and 18 firearms recovered.
And I think most of us have this resounding unfortunate silence from the chairman of INEC and I think Nigerians deserve respect over an institution that is supposed to shepherd their democracy and nobody is coming out to explain to Nigerians how that happened.
In the letter, Mr Ndubueze said he had consulted widely with critical stakeholders before declaring his ambition.
The retired civil servant said it took them six days of begging and negotiating with the terorrists before he agreed to listen to them.
“There were a total of 28 candidates who registered in this center, but only 27 candidates have shown up so far,” he said.
It also urged the police authorities to stop alleged intimidation, harassment and attacks against Mr Emeh, his family and friends.
“The original document of the landed property must be submitted to the chief registrar of Lagos State.
The late judge was the president of the Nigerian Bar Association from 1984 to 1985.
She also stated that she will avoid the “banana peel” that caused the downfall of a former Speaker, Patricia Etteh.
We arrested one person in connection to the crime and we are still in search of two others who are accomplices and by the grace of God they will all be apprehended,” the police spokesperson said.
Patrick Ndubueze said the Senate at this time needs a focused, people-centric, calm and supportive leadership and that he possesses those qualities
“Rano Air, Uza Air, all of them.
Mr Kalu, however, refuted the report that South east Senators-elect endorsed him.
He (Mr Njoku) had written INEC last week requesting it to recognise him as the party’s national chairman based on the Supreme Court judgement.
Controversies have trailed the recent commissioning of ten high-capacity firefighting vehicles reportedly worth over N12 billion by the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN).
But Mr Ngige while speaking during “the morning show” on Arise TV on Monday, criticised the doctor over the ultimatum issued.
A Civil Society Organisation, Nigerian Mental Health, and 40 other campaigners have called for the implementation and enforcement of the National Mental Health Act recently signed by President Muhammadu Buhari.
“While wishing us all happy ‘Idul Fitr, the Council enjoins Muslims all over the country to be on the lookout for the announcement to be made by His Eminence, the President-General of NSCIA on the night of Thursday 20th of April, 2023, the official’s statement said.
He was represented by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha.
In a public one-to-one conversation, Abdalla Hamdok and Mo Ibrahim discussed Sudan’s historic roots of instability and the conditions and prospects of solving the current crisis.
He said that the suspended chairman also displayed his ballot to show he didn’t vote for the party’s gubernatorial candidate among other offences.
“In the 17 polling units, materials were either snatched or the process disrupted.
The prosecution counsel, James Idachaba, said the defendants got the firearm from Musa Audu, a police inspector, attached to Wuye Division and posted on guard duty at the church.
She, however, said the hitch was not from the centre but from JAMB.
Segun said that he was not ready for the dissolution and promised to make things right if given another chance.
That is their Option B.
Its Deputy Director Tah Eric Kaba told ENACT that pangolins are rapidly becoming extinct there.
The parents of the minor, who want to be identified simply as Mr and Mrs Olusola, told PREMIUM TIMES Saturday that the pupil complained about “pains in her vagina” and subsequently confirmed that one Mr David assaulted her.
525 on BOSA/153 laying and situate at Layin Hadiza, opposite Hadiza Memorial Primary and Secondary School, Abuja Sheraton Hotel, Maiduguri, in Maiduguri Metropolitan Local Government Area (MMC), Borno State which you knew to be false and thereby committed an offence contrary to section 1(1) of the Advance Fee Fraud and Other Fraud Related Offences Act, 2006 and punishable under 1(3) of the same Act.”
“Cloudy atmosphere is envisaged over the inland states and the coastal cities of the south with prospects of morning thunderstorms over parts of Cross River and Akwa Ibom State,” it said.
The police spokesperson in the state, Tochukwu Ikenga, disclosed this in a statement on Tuesday.
“It is on record that Prof Wole Soyinka never condemned the shameless episode of ethnic profiling, instigation and hate speech by elements such as Musiliu Akinsanya (a.k.a MC Oluomo), Bayo Onanuga, Femi Fani – Kayode, and a host of other atrocious persons.
Terrorist outlaws, often called bandits, have been active in Nigeria's Northwest and parts of the FCT.
In addition, the panel will investigate all proceeds recovered through the Whistle-Blowers Policy of the regime led by the President, Muhammadu Buhari, and the level of compliance with the policy.
Mr Ubah said members of the South-east caucus in the Senate would meet over the decision by the APC and inform the region of their resolution.
“China’s population reached its peak size in 2022 and has begun to decline.
The government also said the appellate court was wrong when it held that the “failure of the appellant to respond” to some paragraphs “of the affidavit in support of” Mr Kanu’s “preliminary objection amounts to the appellant conceding to the facts therein.”
The group said the mental health Act should be adopted at the subnational level, noting that state governments are critical actors in the dispensation of healthcare for citizens.
The Golden Eaglets won again in Togo in 2007, but since then it has been misses and near misses for the Nigerian teams.
He, therefore, averred that the suit ought to have been instituted either in Abuja or in Kogi State and consequently, urged the court to vacate the order for want of jurisdiction.
He was then charged by the federal government on terrorism-related charges.
• Okpebholo Sunday – Edo Central
Mr Ogundare also called on members of the public to always volunteer information to the police to help in checking criminal elements in society.
“The joy is that these four students are right now in Kebbi Government House very safe and sound,” he said.
Aviation workers on Monday blocked major access roads to both the international and domestic wings of the Murtala Muhammed Airport in Lagos.
We have huge transporter luxury buses made available to us to transport our citizens to the Egyptian border.”
A three-member panel of the appellate court led by Ita George-Mbaba reserved judgement until a date that would be communicated to parties.
[PHOTO CREDIT: Facebook page of Mr Soludo]“In more than a year now, workers in Anambra and other states in the South-East no longer work on Mondays and this has made it for them to work for 70/80 per cent monthly, while they receive their monies 100 per cent.
Mr Ologunagba also said it received credible information that some youth who opposed the planned transitioning of power to Mr Tinubu were being harassed, threatened and attacked.
The senators-elect had in their delegation other senators, including Solomon Olamilekan APC- Lagos West), Opeyemi Bamidele (APC-Ekiti Central) and Yusuf Yusuf (APC-Taraba Central).
This was followed by Kaduna where 1.4 million people voted.
The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, has congratulated Nigerians on the occasion of this year’s Eid-el-Fitr, marking the end of this year’s Ramadan.
The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) has advised candidates billed to sit the 2023 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) to start printing their examination notification slips.
Gbenga Omotoso, the state’s commissioner for information and strategy, made the announcement on Wednesday.
“Which kind country be dis?” said a background voice in the video.
Mr Abubakar said the PDP formed in 1999 as a dominant political party, was passing through challenges that must be addressed.
Mr Trump was indicted last week by a grand jury following an investigation related to a hush money payment made to adult film actress Stormy Daniels during the 2016 presidential campaign.
He said that the troops recovered 10 AK47 rifles, nine AK47 magazines, 14 dane guns, 28 rounds of 7.62mm special, six motorcycles, radios and 76 rustled cattle.
A relative of the family who spoke to our reporter, Olaitan Ale, accused the management of lacking necessary medications and consumables and that it took the family to travel as far as Nasarawa State to procure the WHO-recommended Ribavirin drug to manage the patient.
The case with Suit number; FHC/ABJ/CS/ 573/2023, has APC, Messrs Adamu and Omisore and INEC as first, second, third and fourth respondents respectively.
Speaking with this newspaper on the decision to extend the deadline for DE registration once again, the JAMB official confirmed that the management took the decision at the weekend.
Mr Adeleke stated this during the Workers’ Day celebrations, held at Osogbo township stadium on Monday.
MONROVIA, Liberia—With the second phase of the war crimes trial of an accused Sierra Leonean warlord before Finland’s Turku Court of Appeal in Monrovia ending on Friday, defence lawyers look to be getting the results they want, as all their witnesses say their client committed no crimes in Liberia’s second civil war, contrary to what prosecutors have alleged.
The two top teams from Europe meet each season to determine which will be the champion.
In cases where the original documents are not available, all photocopies of documents to be presented must be notarized.
The Federal University of Technology Akure, (FUTA) said collaborative research between its Laboratory for Geoecology and Sustainable Food System, GeoLab, and Biospheric Scientific Nigeria Limited, BioSci, has come up with a sustainable climate-smart goat/sheep farming.
• Victor Umeh Anambra Central
Mr Obasanjo, who was at the residence of the deceased judge to commiserate with his widow and children, refused to speak with journalists.
The court acknowledged the convict’s decision to remove the child from the jurisdiction to Nigeria within a short time after the offence occurred to minimise the chances of her telling anyone was an aggravating factor.
It is accordingly dismissed.”
At the resumed hearing of Mr Obi’s petition on Wednesday, his lawyer, Livy Uzoukwu, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), informed the five-member panel of the court led by Haruna Tsammani that INEC “stubbornly refused to produce 70 per cent of the electoral documents that were requested (by the LP).”
Mr Jalingo reiterated the benefits of census which were not unconnected with national economic planning and the provision of data for administrative planning.
PSC approves dismissal of three officers, reduces rank of five others
He said the right to freedom of speech is not absolute and can be curtailed as opposed to under appropriate circumstances.
Eid-el-Fitr: Gbajabiamila, Betara congratulate Muslims, pray for peace
The West African country has, however, put in place ‘necessary arrangements’ to ensure the evacuation is done as soon as possible, the official said.
Therefore, any group laying claim and parading itself as Nigerian Peace Corps for now is illegal,” he said.
The appeal gave many other reasons and declared, “The conviction is safe, and the appeal against conviction is dismissed.”
This was contained in a statement issued on Friday and signed by the Director of Information at the Presidential Villa, Abiodun Oladunjoye.
The project is a secured and dedicated communication domain that provides real-time audio and video communication for military operations.
Another suspect, Salisu Abdullahi, 25, was arrested along Abuja-Kaduna road with 11.7kg cannabis concealed in two jerrycans, which he was moving from Port Harcourt to Kano just as operatives of the agency also on Saturday nabbed one Atiku Abubakar, 22, on the same road with 50 blocks of cannabis weighing 28kg while travelling from Lagos to Shinkafi in Zamfara State in a commercial bus.
At the BPC, the birds were taken into a temporary accommodation.
However, there is a major setback for the South-east region, which is the poor electoral performance of the APC in the region during the last elections.
Mr Tinubu of the All Progressives Congress was declared winner of the presidential elections by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC).
Police arrest four suspects over murder of traditional ruler in Ebonyi
We are on the right path and we will remain committed to the course.
The state government said the houses were among 98 buildings designated as illegal structures.
The police in Ekiti on Wednesday announced the capture of a man they alleged had been involved in several kidnap incidents in the state.
The senator-elect described the contest as senators’ business, backed by the constitution to choose their leaders within themselves.
On his part, Mr. Adesina said he is pleased to appoint her for the position and expressed optimism that she will provide strong and effective leadership to the complex.
Corps Commander Selina Williams, the Taraba Sector Commander of FRSC, on Sunday, alerted the state residents of a fake LinkedIn account circulating over the corps’ ongoing recruitment process.
“I have a home in Lagos and America, and I am very often here (Lagos), I tried very hard to get my PVC and the reason was that I was assured that technology will save us.
The report noted that several factors contributed to the price fluctuations in the region, including cash scarcity, intermittent insecurity issues, and the increase in prices commonly associated with festive periods.
So I built the mosque but I was labelled as the one who demolished it.
He is known to always be in the community…,” He said in a Facebook post.
He, however, said that 96 per cent of malaria deaths globally were found in 29 countries, with Nigeria among the four countries which accounted for over half of all malaria deaths globally in 2021.
Nigeria said the code was used to hide actual corruption, which Cahill disputed.
Our 2023 elections and our Future:
He said the 21 days stipulated by law for the filing of petitions by aggrieved parties had lapsed, adding that no new petitions could be filed again .
“To the Honourable Justices of the Bench: You face difficult challenges ahead and you are mortals.
Participation was worse in Rivers State with only 15 per cent of people turning out to vote in the oil-rich state amid reports of violence.
He said the silent approach is part of the strategy by his team to woo the governors.
Mrs Ahmed said the money would be used to attend to a segment of post-petroleum subsidy palliatives requirement in the country.
He expressed reservation about the need to give between seven to 10 thousand naira to 10 million households at a time the inflation figure is 21.9 percent and estimated PMS prices post-subsidy regime are projected to be between 580 and 782 naira, amid looming surge in the prices of food and energy.
The fourth batch of 410 stranded Nigerians, evacuated from conflict-ridden Sudan, has arrived at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja.
Mr Ajibola is loved in Abeokuta.
With Prank me not, You can create a Facebook status post and fake comments on a post that doesn’t exist.
Meanwhile, Real Madrid will reflect on their performance, having been unable to win any of their previous five away games against Manchester City in the competition.
The Federal High Court had sentenced Mr Maina to various jail terms ranging from three to eight years, which are to run concurrently.
Mr Obi, like Mr Tinubu, is from the south of Nigeria.
PT: What makes you feel the House will be different under you?
The APC, which has the highest number of seats in the Senate and House of Representatives, settled for Godswill Akpabio (South-south) and Barau Jibrin (North-west) for the positions of senate president and deputy senate president respectively.
Mr Tinubu of the APC polled a total of 8,794,726 votes to defeat his closest challenger, Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) who scored a total of 6,984,520 votes.
“If both of them agreed – let me hold your phone, when you pay me, you will collect your phone – it is a different thing than when you see a person, you snatch the phone from his hand by force.
The incident, which recorded loss of lives, attracted public condemnation.
“We have certainly moved the needle, but the task going forward is to consolidate and advance.
I know that many will want to contest that fact because of what happened on Tuesday.
“The government needs to prioritise the development of a goods and services export strategy in collaboration with the subnational governments.
The Ohanaeze vice-president said Imeobi —- the highest decision-making organ of the Ohanaeze —- would meet on 30 April, to take “far-reaching decisions” on the new leadership of the group.
Oluwatoyin said that people mock her in the neighbourhood because of her husband’s infidelity.
The surveillance also targeted her then 16-year-old son Emilio as well as two colleagues; her sister, a producer, and a former assistant were also believed to have been suspected targets.
She also led the team that authored the African Fixed Income and Derivatives Guidebook published in 2010.
He noted that the former president claimed he was paying Michael Cohen (Trump’s former personal attorney) for legal services performed in 2017 which he categorically called a lie.
It is a gift of God that is within each of us.
She said that “he would touch me” and that “he sexually abused me”.
“Therefore, our findings of fact on the ownership of the cigarettes are determinative of the appeal,” the judge said.
22 Woji Road Port Harcourt, the Rivers State Capital, which had been under the management of Sterling Law Alliance since 2019.
The association further noted that another attempt by the state government was made in July 2015 and that the development prompted the management of the college to complain in writing to the FME.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that 22 people were involved, comprising of seven male adults, eight female adults, four male children, and three female children.
A lot is being said and rumoured about the House of Representatives and what its roles and duties are really about.
So, the CAMA 2020 is a wonderful legislation in terms of doing business in Nigeria.
She began her career as Mistress II in Community Comprehensive Secondary School, Uyo, Akwa Ibom State in 1994 and later transferred her service to the University of Uyo in 2000.
The government alleged they were acquired through fraudulent means.
Mr Tiinubu praised Governor Nyesom Wike for his development strides in Rivers State, particularly for the 12 flyovers constructed across the capital city, saying posterity would kindly remember him.
“Heavy security presence has been deployed to the area to forestall any further breakdown of law and order, the statement read.
I find it very disappointing that Court orders are often not obeyed.
Mr Abbas also said he would not succumb to being teleguided, but promised to cooperate with the executive in national 8nterest.
“The concerns raised by our colleague are being looked into, and I think in due course, we will have very specific conclusions of those concerns,” he said.
She said a thorough assessment revealed an urgent need to close the bridge to avert risk to motorists and other road users.
“When I ran for president four years ago, I said we are in a battle for the soul of America.
“Most, if not all the issues the plaintiffs submitted for determination in the said originating summons are repeated in the present petition,” he said.
“Such a strategy should focus on labour-intensive sectors, and should clearly identify priority sectors and potential markets by leveraging Nigeria’s global network of diaspora and consulates,” it said.
In a letter dated 11 April and addressed to the CCB, Atiku said it will be inappropriate to respond to the CCB since a court is already handling the case.
He was re-elected on the platform of the APC for a four-year tenure that runs till May 2023.
Vibrant Resource Limited allegedly received N100 million on 23 April 2014 and Helpline Organisation was said to have received N500 million on 24 April 2014.
‘‘The new homeowners who benefit from this estate have taken a step up on the ladder of prosperity and away from poverty,” he said.
With depressed valuations offering buy-side investors something to leverage, the attention of the market in the days ahead will likely be on first-quarter corporate results, which could shape the trajectory of trade in the short term.
The testimony from the eight-week trial in London sheds unprecedented light on questionable business practices by P&ID and ICIL.
Mr Edafe, a deputy superintendent of police, however, was silent on the allegation that the victim was killed for refusing to pay the bribe to the officer.
“We have three applications listed and we will be moving the applications at the appropriate time,” Mr Mahmoud said.
Felix Morka, the spokesperson of the APC, in a statement on Saturday, denied the allegation made by the National Chairman of LP, Julius Abure, that APC used security agents and thugs to invade its national secretariat.
This is contained in a statement by Director-General, PDP-GF, Cyril Maduabum, in Abuja on Tuesday.
The court also set aside the N500,000 fines imposed by NBC on 1 March 2019, on each of 45 broadcast stations.
Ms Brooks entered the US in 1986 legally with a six-month visa, and, three years later, had her status adjusted to that of a “conditional permanent resident alien” on getting married to a US citizen.
He described his predecessor, a Port Harcourt-based lawyer, as “a known philanthropist who has helped in the development of his community in no small measure”.
His crime consisted of nothing more than declaring the name “Obidient” derogatory to his sense of civic dignity and activist history.
To our President Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR
About a fortnight ago, Mr Otedola divested his 6.3 per cent substantial stake in Transnational Corporation Plc, a conglomerate with interest in power generation, to tycoon Tony Elumelu after week of off-market share purchases.
It invited – into minds seeking a grasp on reality – gruesome variations on images from Dante’s Purgatorio.”
The defendants’ lawyer, Panam Ntui, did not object to the police’s withdrawal of the amended charge on Monday.
Anas Wada, a resident of Gusau, the Zamfara State capital, who was planning to go home after evening prayers on Sunday and hanging out with friends instead landed at a hospital where he is being treated for gunshot injuries after a policeman shot him twice over a disagreement.
Vice President-elect Kashim Shettima has disclosed that the President-elect, Bola Tinubu, picked Godswill Akpabio as his preferred candidate for the position of senate president to avoid the “negative narrative of Islamization”.
The opposition candidate alleged that there was an attempt to manipulate Nigerians against him.
Astonished, Mr Victor and the suspects’ parents returned to the unit with the information.
So I’d like to thank you very much for working with us in the past 8 years or so and I pray that all of you, more than you think, will be rewarded by the Almighty God for your contributions to your states and to our nation.
Nine years is too long to be in such a deplorable condition.
The workshop will train 23 participants, including journalists and civil society actors and is scheduled to hold from 10th to 12th May, 2023 in Abuja, Nigeria.
Mr Buhari also requested the Senate to approve the reimbursement by issuing promissory notes to Plateau and Borno, the sums of N6.6 billion and N3.8 billion, respectively.
Prices of petroleum products should be market-determined rather than regulated by the government,” it said.
She noted that ADF understands the challenges of the federal government and Air Peace and has contacted relevant federal government agencies involved in humanitarian disaster relief intervention and it will ensure that all Nigerians stranded in Sudan are brought back home safely.
Mr Osinbajo further noted that improving the business environment in Nigeria was a continuous process because of “a challenging business and trading environment for domestic and foreign investors operating in Nigeria.
In a statement on Friday by the Secretary to the State Government, Chris Ezem, Mr Ikpeazu regretted that an industrial action embarked upon by the Abia State Chapter of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) had paralysed activities across various government offices in the state, including the office of the state accountant-general which is responsible for payment of salary.
*Eliminating rats in homes and communities by setting rat traps and other means.
“Even the Federal Government who directed him to go to court even dispatched the Minister of Information Lai Mohammad to the United States to attempt at de-marketing him and accused him of treason,” the statement said.
I believe this is what we need in Nigeria right now, strong institutions but we also need people to build strong institutions.”
“And there have been allegations that expenditures of these recoveries have also been done in complete violation of the provision of the constitution,” he said.
Mr Tinubu defeated 17 other candidates who took part in the election.
Though this 60.1 per cent is nationwide, if you come down to different states, we have those who are still at 54 per cent, some are at 60 per cent, and others 70 per cent,” he said.
Indeed, I think they might have thought that something was wrong with me about finding out the truth.
The assets are part of proceeds of N8.5billion for the military Operation Pulo Shield in the Niger Delta, which he was accused of diverting from the military between September 5, 2014 and May 20, 2015.
The bitcoin, said to be part of proceeds traceable to his offence, “was transferred to the government on 14 April 2022.”
Mr Melaye dismissed Mr Wike’s allegation that delegate lists were being manipulated to favour him.
Responding, the APC National Chairman, Abdullahi Adamu, said the zoning of the Senate Presidency was done in concert with stakeholders and some senators.
The state government said it has allocated thousands of hectares currently occupied by the farmers in the reserve to a private company for the cultivation of oil palm.
276 school girls were abducted from their school by Boko Haram in Chibok in 2014.
After the prosecution had closed its case, the mother discovered text messages that her husband, the convict, had sent to her in January 2021 in which he had warned her and the victim not to say anything about what had happened.
According to Mr Areghan, the registered candidates for 2023 increased by 13,868 over the figure of 2022, which was 1,607,985.
“This was occasioned by the COVID-19 pandemic whereof China Exim Bank withdrew its support to finance the project,’’ he said.
“In Ibadan North East/Ibadan South East, six polling units affected have 2,912 registered voters, 2,381 of whom collected their PVCs.
Mrs Benson said the state would facilitate all the building plans and approval, assuring that the best structures would be built to avoid building collapse in police barracks in future.
“It is pertinent to note that, in the South, South-south contributed the second highest votes after South-West which houses the President-elect.
Fasting makes bearers of constricted minds even more light-headed.
Be that as it may, I am here in solidarity with our sister.
She appealed to Lagos residents to take ownership of roads and other public infrastructure to protect them against vandalism.
The retired colonel told reporters that although military authorities were claiming ownership of the apartment, he had bought the apartment from the Enugu State Government some years ago.
The winning trends of the APC is obvious, real, actual and all-embracing.
The 71 years old former governor of Lagos State was listed among the 20 world leaders that made the 2023 edition of the magazine.
“The shooter was one of a group of police officers who had been in their town for months, before this particular shooting incident.
The areas where the other eight radars will be located include Abuja, Kano, Port Harcourt (Rivers), Numan (Adamawa), Talata Marafa (Kebbi), Obubra (Cross River), Lagos, and Ilorin (Kwara).
But the National Assembly elections could not be decided that day.
The electoral commission also said it will request the Secretary to Government of the Federation to draw attention “to the appointing authority to the unwholesome behaviour of the REC for further action”.
The new bill captures the value chain in the mining sector, encourage value addition, as well as, recognises the artisanal miners, who will now be registered, under the proposed law.
“Yes, the governing party African National Congress (ANC) has taken that decision that it is prudent that South Africa should pull out of the ICC,” Cyril Ramaphosa said at a press conference he co-hosted with President Sauli Niinisto of Finland who is visiting South Africa.
However, as of the time of filing this report, Mr Ogboye neither reverted to PREMIUM TIMES nor answered the call to his telephone line.
This embarrassing about-turn has prompted considerable speculation about Mr Ramaphosa’s competence.
He commending the Chairman, Managing Director, members of the Board and Staff of Federal Housing Authority (FHA) on the successful completion of the Estate.
Mr Mimiko also urged the government to engage with all agitating forces of this country.
Or stay hungry, thus simming a nation with ease
“We have brought this petition on behalf of farmers numbering 10,000 who engage mainly in cocoa farming in commercial quantity at their various camps in Oluwa Forest Reserve anand who also trade in cocoa business,” the lawyer said.
Speaking on quality assurance, Mrs Omotosho said those who are into feed milling should have their protocol for receiving their materials.
In a related development on Thursday, another Nigerian writer, Chimamanda Adichie, in her open letter to the President of the United States of America, Joe Biden, alleged that the 2023 presidential election was marred by violence, ballot box snatching, voter intimidation, and other malpractices.
More importantly, he has also declared that his administration will govern for the benefit of those who voted for or against it.
“We need a strengthened health system that is resilient, people-centered, and user-friendly with HRH adorned with warmth, compassion, and spirit of egalitarianism,” she added.
“For over eight years, the conditions of service have not been implemented as the aviation agencies are functioning without governing boards and there are no checks and balances.
Insisting that declaring the election inconclusive was baseless, they urged the tribunal to add the votes from Ward 4 on Form EC8B (I) (ward election result sheet) dated 18 March to the votes of the parties in the EC8C (I) of 18 March.
The official says the funding must come from both government and private entities to meet the annual target of infrastructural investments.
Mr El-Rufai stated this in Gombe on Saturday while addressing journalists.
The doctors demanded an “immediate increment in the CONMESS salary structure to the tune of 200 per cent of the current gross salary of doctors in addition to the new allowances included in the letter written by NARD to the Minister of Health, Osagie Ehanire, in 2022.
Ocean Incursion: Ondo LGA seeks resettlement of riverine community
Nigerians doctors under the umbrella of the National Association of Resident Doctors (NARD) have announced plans to begin a five-day warning strike if the Nigerian government fails to meet their demands.
But these are not government funds.
The war has affected food and energy supply chains across the world.
“I am fed up, Segun cannot change, chasing after women and ladies has become the order of the day for him,” she said.
“Travellers should plan their journeys for the daytime because when crashes occur away from FRSC rescue points, it is difficult to access help from other motorists at night,’’ Mr Kazeem also quoted Biu as saying.
This is also verifiable.
“Suddenly people came hitting the vehicle, shouting ‘your vehicle broke someone’s leg and you are sitting in the car!’ I came down from the vehicle to ask them if they really saw what happened?
“I, Abatcha Melemi, the returning officer for the 2023 Yobe South senatorial district election, held on April 15, declares;
It said the figure may be far more and that “many more” deaths are on the offing as a result of outbreaks of diseases and total breakdown of essential services.
The FRSC corps marshal expressed satisfaction over the good conduct, honesty and sense of patriotism exhibited by the personnel.
Just as South Africa was done rescinding its withdrawal from the International Criminal Court (ICC) over the saga of former Sudanese president Omar al-Bashir’s 2015 visit to Johannesburg, it probably wished it had withdrawn after all.
The voluntary mock test was scheduled for 30 March, but some candidates could not take the test due to technical hitches experienced at several computer based test (CBT) centres, prompting the board to reschedule the test for affected candidates.
Obaseki dissolves Edo Executive Council
Now I know why some of your folks deride the Due Process-Public Procurement reforms.
Business reforms initiated by Buhari show new Nigeria is possible – Osinbajo
“This is telling us that we are still not diagnosing the disease which is killing our children in various communities.”
Rather than focus on the scapegoat or the lamb of sacrifice, all of us need to pause and ask if we were participants or guilty bystanders in the violence among us.
To the Honourable Justices of the Bench:
“The most glaring is that we Nigerians all saw these mutilated elections, we saw polling unit agents talking about how what they had at the polling unit was not what was then announced or uploaded officially.
He also cited Mr Mamu’s failure to debunk the claims contained in the counter-affidavit filed to oppose his bail application by the State Security Service (SSS), the agency keeping him in custody.
The Presidency said on Monday that this year’s official visit from 11 to 19 April would be Mr Buhari’s last trip to the Saudi Arabia as president.
Tajudeen Abass is the most competent lawmaker from the zone having been the highest bill sponsor in the 8th and 9th Assemblies,” they said.
He said Mr Adeleye is to succeed Richard Arifalo whose five-year tenure as registrar ends 31st May.
Called to the Nigerian bar after undergoing one-year-long legal studies at the Nigerian Law School in Lagos in 1983, Mr Tsammani has spent the last four decades of his life in the legal profession.
PREMIUM TIMES reported that the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) adopted Messrs Abbas and Kalu as speaker and deputy speaker respectively.
PREMIUM TIMES reported that Mr Iwuanyanwu, a Nigerian politician and entrepreneur, emerged as Ohanaeze Ndigbo’s president-general after being endorsed and presented to Governor Hope Uzodinma of Imo State by a delegation of the Imo Elders Council on 19 April.
The advantage here is that it will reduce pressure from the government; these people own this port, complete the port, put the port to use and pay royalty to the government.
With this, the Billionaire businessman and philanthropist’s rating in Forbes billionaires list has again shot up and closed in on overtaking the third richest man in Africa, Nicky Oppenheimer who stands at $8.4 billion.
No group has claimed responsibility for the attack although the separatist group IPOB has been blamed for attacks on public institutions and officials in that region.
This is not the first attempt South Africa is making at exiting the ICC.
The first-ever malaria vaccine, RTS, S or mosquirix, from British drugmaker- GlaxoSmithKline (GSK), was approved by the WHO in 2021 after decades of work, but various research shows that the effectiveness of the vaccine is approximately 60 per cent, and that it significantly wanes over time, even with a booster dose.
In the suits, marked CA/PEPC/01/2023, CA/PEPC/04/2023 and CA/PEPC/02/2023, AA and its presidential candidate, APM and APP are respectively challenging the outcome of the presidential election on the grounds of alleged substantial non-compliance with the electoral laws as well as the INEC guidelines.
“I remain committed to the growth and development of Osun.
He congratulated Mr Fintiri and the people of Adamawa State and urged the governor to continue in his landmark transformational delivery of democracy dividends to the people in line with the manifesto, programmes and policies of the PDP.
Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has declared Wednesday a public holiday while urging the people to turn out en masse to receive the President-elect, Bola Tinubu, who is on a two-day visit to the oil-rich state.
Human rights groups are asking the police to release the detained man or charge him to court.
Mr RK was convicted and sentenced for raping his daughter.
A private meeting between Governor Biodun Oyebanji and his main opponent in last year’s governorship election, Segun Oni of the Social Democratic Party, is causing excitement in Ekiti State.
We call on the Inspector General of Police to immediately arrest Mallam Yunusa Ari and make him face the full wrath of the law for his conduct.”
“The “One Health” approach, a holistic and multisectoral approach, is also needed to address AMR’s rising threat.
Mr Gagdi asks Mr Tinubu and the APC to zone Reps Speakership to the North-central.
Their election was concluded and results announced by INEC on Tuesday.
“It is an optional feature that adds more security to your WhatsApp account, so it is recommended that everyone installs 2FA,” he added.
In the last year’s hajj exercise, Kano State rejected Azman Air over alleged limited capacity and delay in operations to convey its pilgrims to Mecca.
We are talking about governance of a state, we are not talking about drama for Christ sake,” Mr Wike said.
Ms Bala Usman also claimed to have had a personal reconciliatory meeting with the Minister during which Mr Amaechi accused her of writing directly to the President without recourse to the minister.
Ms Usman is charged alongside a former Minister of Aviation, Femi Fani-Kayode and Yusuf Danjuma, a former chairman of the Association of Local Governments of Nigeria (ALGON).
“As the President and substantive Minister of Petroleum Resources, you and your government should prioritise getting to the bottom of these allegations and use the remainder of your term of office to ensure justice and accountability for these serious crimes against the Nigerian people.
He also lauded the deceased for using his knowledge and mastery to mentor people, who have also added value to journalism practice in the country.
We will not allow this parliament to be hijacked," one of the lawmakers said.
He said that the singer will face trial after the completion of their investigation.
The APC had similarly, in separate filings, urged the election petition court to dismiss other petitions filed by the Labour Party candidate, Peter Obi, and three other candidates.
These cases were largely related to political events which hit a peak in the first quarter of 2023.
Release Date: 16th April 2023
A group, Free Nigeria Movement, has accused Nobel laureate, Wole Soyinka, of a ‘selective witch-hunt’ over his reaction to the comments of the vice presidential candidate of the Labour Party, Datti Baba-Ahmed.
By the end of the 1970s, the fertility rate in China fell by half, to three births per woman.
If we allow injustice in our society while claiming to be believers, then as St. Paul said, we are empty gongs (1 Cor.
“We need the senate presidency position in order to balance the equation,” he said.
But just around the time (on October 18, 2017) the court dismissed the defendant’s attempt to dismiss the injunction, documents obtained from the U.K. property register revealed that Mr Aluko sold the house for £9 million to Aranda incorporated by Mr Tinubu’s surrogates, Messrs Oyetola and Eludoyin.
Other members of the gang have been arrested.
The businessman turned the tables on the conglomerate’s two previous biggest owners to take the prime spot.
A Nigerian news blog, Gistlover, had published a report accusing the officers of engaging in illegal arrest, torture, extortion and extra-judicial killings of their victims.
Also, at the entry level in the civil service, polytechnic graduates are placed on GL07 while university graduates are placed on GL08.
The minister reiterated the position of the president that the opposition in the 2023 presidential election lost in the polls due to their overconfidence, complacency and bad tactical moves.
The list of to-be-forfeited assets includes luxury cars, among which are Rolls Royce Cullinan and Lamborghini Urus.
Project NIGERIA, I must confess, has become near terminally soul-searing.
Mr Melaye, the spokesperson of Peoples Democratic Party Presidential Campaign Council (PDP PCC) is aspiring to become the governor of Kogi State in the 11 November election.
The president, who has been in power since 2015 when he was elected, will leave the office at the end of his second four-year tenure on 29 May.
I observed, with satisfaction, the largely peaceful atmosphere that pervaded the supplementary election on Saturday.
The child, his daughter, was 10 years old at the time of the offence in the UK.
But the Action Alliance has urged the court to nullify the polls owing to alleged refusal of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to upload the name of its actual presidential candidate – Solomon-David Okanigbuan – to its portal for the February poll.
“He said he will continue with Buhari’s policies and our question is, what is he continuing?
Atiku came second while Mr Obi came third.
“Nobody knows that students can go to that level of indiscipline to cost the life of their mate,” he said.
Mr Tinubu who was APC presidential candidate polled 8.8 million votes to beat Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party who came second in the race.
The election was contested.
Police in Delta have arrested two kidnap suspects at the Udu Local Government Area of the state.
The statement did not, however, contain details of Mr Obi’s arrest and his subsequent release before returning to the country.
In his opening speech, Mr Tsammani urged the lawyers not to engage in unnecessary technicalities as such could cause delays in the expeditious hearing of the petitions.
"The reports of some irregularities and violence in some polling units could not have affected the overall outcome of the elections too.
He recalled that he had consulted God in prayer before contesting the election and that God had never disappointed him.
Governor Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia State has ordered immediate payment of salaries to all workers in the state.
Distinguished Senator Ahmed Lawan,
A statement by IPI Nigeria’s Secretary, Ahmed Shekarau, on Wednesday, listed the three newly-inaugurated committees of the body as those on fundraising, programmes, and advocacy.
Mr Amode said the apex court’s ruling had put an end to the legal battles and would allow Mr Adeleke face the task of delivering dividends of democracy to the door steps of Osun residents.
Seven years later, its fighting power has increased significantly, making it fourth in ranking among African militaries as against seventh in 2015, NAN reported.
Mr Gagdi also disclosed that he met with the Abia State Governor-elect, Alex Otti, to target the 34 Reps-elect on the platform of the Labour Party (LP).
Nigerian military kills 54 terrorists, rescues over 400 victims – DHQ
PREMIUM TIMES reported how Mr Mohammed, while in the US, said INEC took a decision to suspend the uploading of presidential election results on its online platform, IReV, after the electoral commission suspected that the platform was susceptible to hacking.
The defendants had each pleaded not guilty to the charges and were granted bail.
The lawyer said the state government on 20 August, 2020 issued its legal advice on the matter directing that the officer be prosecuted.
“She was later married off to another insurgent, Abba, in Ukuba terrorist enclaves in Sambisa forest until her rescue by troops of Operation Hadin Kai.
“Article 19 (1) of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights establishes the right to freedom of opinion without interference.
This edition marks the return of the tournament after a 4-year hiatus due to the COVID-19 pandemic, forcing FIFA to cancel the 2021 edition.
In 2015, the North-east produced Yakubu Dogara as Speaker.
In their separate responses to the suit, the parliament prayed the court to dismiss Mr Ekpenyong’s case for being unmeritorious.
He said pilgrims from Edo state will pay N2,968,000.00, while those from Ekiti and Ondo will pay N2,i80,000.000.
Quite a few pundits have set out in some impressive – not necessarily persuasive – detail the – possibility that the complainants in this presidential election are not as strongly planted on the victory podium as they presume – see, for instance – Ambassador Haastrup’s fascinating analysis in Newspeak etc.
This will acknowledge the different rights, roles and responsibilities of women and men in the 10th National Assembly and State Assemblies.
“Since then, the case has come up five times in the whole of 2022, and on each occasion, the complainant, the Lagos State Government, could not produce the killer police officer.
“Igbos should not spend time fighting themselves but rather forge a common front for their future in Nigeria.
However, in a congratulatory message to the senators-elect on Saturday, he insisted that he will not withdraw from the race in spite of his party announcing its preference of candidates.
Governors Dave Umahi of Ebonyi, Ben Ayade of Cross River, and Bello Matawalle of Zamfara all abandoned the PDP, the platform on which they were elected in 2019, for the APC in the last two years.
On the five demands of the doctors, Mr Ngige said the federal government lacks the powers to compel the states to domesticate the Medical Residency Training Fund (MRTF).
“Daily, Biafrans are murdered in cold blood, illegally abducted and unlawfully detained in Nigeria in the quest for Biafra freedom.
“I assure you, there will be changes, there is ability in disability, and we will work so hard to ensure that we play up those abilities in you.
Others are the former Minister of Power, Chinedu Nebo; Joy Ezeilo, former Inspector General of Police, Ogbonnaya Onovo and an Executive Director at First Bank, Mrs Christy Okoye among other notable Nigerians.
He said that he was convinced that Pope John Paul II as well as Benedict XVI and Francis knew or know what happened at that time.
The former president, who said that Nigeria and the world are passing through trying times, tasked citizens on faith, mutual trust and sincerity of purpose.
They said they had lost almost all hope that the other 98 girls would ever be rescued.
Mr Danmadami said the offensive led to the killing of 29 terrorists and the capture of 20 others, while 54 victims who escaped from the terrorists were rescued by the troops.
The situation resulted in intensive gridlock along airport roads in Ikeja, leaving several passengers stranded.
A breakdown revealed 273.1 million units were directly held, according to the 2022 financial report, while 273.5 million were held indirectly through Heirs Holdings.
“The Governors’ team met the Minister to discuss a resolution of the matter.
“I experienced this last year too.
The IGP directed that the intensive patrols should cover worship centres, train stations, highways, motor parks, airports, waterways, recreation centres, banks and other financial institutions.
10th House: Group asks APC to cede deputy speaker to South-south
The Supreme Court adjourned IPOB leader Nnamdi Kanu's case for full hearing on the merit of federal government's appeal against his acquittal.
To halt the drift, Nigeria’s House of Representatives is currently considering a bill seeking mandatory five-year service for doctors trained in the country before being presented with a practising licence.
There was no appearance nor filing of court processes by the Nigeria Police Force in Lagos, who are the fourth defendants.
Representatives of the Ministries of Humanitarian Affairs, Foreign Affairs, NEMA, National Commission for Refugees, Migrants and Internally Displaced Persons, among others were on ground to receive the returnees.
Mr Oladunjoye said after the official ribbon-cutting ceremony on Friday, Mr Buhari would embark on a guided tour of the state-of-the-art facility and will be accompanied by the State House Permanent Secretary, Tijjani Umar.
Mr Ozekhome pointed out that the CAC must know its limits, and must avoid dabbling into religious matters and incorporated bodies.
Messrs Obi and Kwankwaso dumped the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) just before the primaries.
Presidency reacts to judgement reinstating Ararume as NNPCL chair
“We need to be very competitive and that is why NEPZA is very happy to be working with you,” he said.
He said “the applicants have established that the respondents will likely tamper with their rights,” adding that the case of the applicants succeeded on merit.
It features ten teams and is held for six weeks.
“For both our GBO and China employees, we have an internal mobility process for impacted team members to help find a new role if there’s a skill fit.
The EFCC closed its case on 17 March 2021 after calling its second witness, Adewale Olatunji, a former clerk of the Lagos House of Assembly
University education is the highest level of tertiary institution in Nigeria, with most students sitting the Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) opting for the universities, rather than the polytechnics or colleges of education.
According to the statement, the selection process for the World Bank President was open, merit-based, and transparent, with any national of the bank’s membership eligible for nomination.
Removal of ministers and appointees is generally a rarity under the outgoing administration of President Buhari.
Champion Breweries closed at N4, going down by 7.6 per cent.
However the zoning formula comes, it is either the speaker or the deputy speaker—it will definitely come our way.
“I want to see my country make progress and whatever I can do to contribute to the development of the country, I will do it.
But what about the legislative will?
“It is something that is quite disturbing and unfortunate.
The IMF said the other major forces that shaped the world economy in 2022 seem set to continue into this year, but with changed intensities.
*One (1) Mercedes-Benz G-Class AMG G55, vehicle number G68816
According to Section 401 of the Nigerian Criminal Code Act, “Any person who steals anything and, at or immediately before or immediately after the time of stealing it, uses or threatens to use actual violence to any person or property in order to obtain or retain the thing stolen or to prevent or overcome resistance to its being stolen or retained, is said to be guilty of robbery.”
“The policeman was in mufti, but he was holding a rifle.
But a lack of funding and commercial potential thwarted the company’s capacity to produce as many doses as were needed.
Among other impactful steps by the VP, including supporting judicial reforms, Mr Oduwole recalled that “on May 18, 2017, tonight’s awardee (VP Osinbajo), then as Acting President, signed Executive Order 001, on promotion of transparency and efficiency in the business environment, the first executive order of this administration with directives on transparency, default approvals, One Government, ports operations and registration of businesses.”
Relevant agricultural and media professionals on Tuesday and Wednesday met in Abuja to discuss the roles of farmers, academia and the media in achieving sustainable animal feed production and food security in Nigeria.
The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) has rescheduled the ongoing Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) for candidates who couldn’t take their tests on Tuesday due to technical hitches.
Ooni donates land to Nigeria Peace Corps for training school
The court granted the federal government’s request allowing it to pursue its appeal at the Supreme Court while Mr Kanu remains in custody.
The teenage pupil of Agbele Community High School was returning from school when he was caught in the flood.
The World Cup is regarded as one of the most popular sports events in the world.
In a statement issued by Lanre Lasisi, the special adviser on Media and Publicity to the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Mr Gbajabiamila commiserated with the family of the deceased.
The APC contended that Mr Obi was a member of the PDP as of 24 May 2022, during which the party screened him as one of its presidential aspirants in April 2022.
This is the first time Inter will be playing in the Champions League final 13 years after they were led to lifting the prestigious trophy by Jose Mourinho.
I am sure those people that are saying no to it, I am sure they do not want to continue to see Lagos airport the way it is.
It could be very useful if people could point out what is untrue in the letter.
Insiders said the ICPC investigation is around several cases of financial impropriety, including laundering millions through two staff by paying them N5 million each in violation of all extant rules; paying unknown external auditor millions of naira and paying N300,000 monthly to a Police Station in Bauchi for “reasons unknown”.
Mr Okoye described INEC as a law-abiding institution that would continue to give effect to the decisions, judgements and orders of the various courts in Nigeria.
PROFILES: Presidential Election: Things to note about five judges who’ll decide Tinubu’s fate
“The former members from the 6th, 7th, 8th, and 9th Assembly, unanimously resolved to mobilise support and reach out to the new members-elect from their zones, with detailed facts of Hon.
Charles automatically succeeded his mother as king on her death last September, and the coronation is not essential but regarded as a means to legitimise the monarch in a public way.
Matthew Awodi Kingsley (Brook House Academy)
The management of the Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Osun State, says it has handed over suspects accused of the murder of a final-year student, Okoli Aishe, of the institution.
When confronted with the views expressed by the lawyers and retired officers that the action of Mr Ohadoma against Mr Ahamefula did not amount to robbery, the police spokesperson in the state, Mr Okoye, said he would not comment on the case because the matter was before a court.
Details of their meeting with the Ife monarch were sketchy at the time of filing this report but photographs showed the monarch placing his hands on the head of Mr Akpabio as a way of giving royal blessings.
“His other approval is on policy on HIV/AIDS.
“It is therefore not out of place for us to proceed to the tribunal to challenge the outcome of the election in the face of glaring electoral malfeasance perpetrated on that fateful day,” he said.
The Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) and Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC) came second and third respectively.
They are the Incumbent Deputy Speaker Idris Wase (Plateau) Yusuf Gagdi (Plateau) Sada Soli (Katsina), Muktar Betara (Borno) Tunji Olawuyi (Kwara), Abubakar Makki (Jigawa), Aminu Jaji (APC, Zamfara), Ben Kalu (Abia), Ado Doguwa (Kano), and Miriam Onuoha (Imo).
Failure to do this is tantamount to the fact that Nigeria is sitting on the keg of gunpowder and only waiting to explode.
Nigeria enrols 3 million girls in secondary schools through AGILE project – Official
“The Attorney General is hereby directed to urgently institute appropriate legal actions to challenge the legality of states’ laws permitting former governors, who are now senators and ministers to enjoy governors’ emoluments while drawing normal salaries and allowances in their new political offices and to identify those involved and seek full recovery of public funds from the former governors.”
He went on to remind the judiciary of the challenge ahead of them in light of several election petitions.
A statement released by the bank stated that the new and old currency notes have been circulating side by side, and the bank has been taking delivery of a good quantity of the redesigned bank notes from the Nigerian Security Printing and Minting Company (NSPMC) Limited.
Umar Damagum, the acting national chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), has asked the House of Representatives members elected on the platform of the PDP to stay loyal to the party.
U-17 AFCON: Nigeria’s Golden Eaglets seek to end 16-year African title drought
In the end, only true Christian love can redeem us.
The two other witnesses—a policeman and civilian couldn’t travel to Liberia, because the latter is hospitalised, while the boss of the former didn’t approve his trip.
The group argued that this was so because the code, which created the alleged offences of which the broadcast stations were accused was written and adopted by the NBC, “and also gives powers to the said commission to receive complaints of alleged breaches, investigate and adjudicate the complaints, impose sanctions, including fines, and ultimately collect the fines, which the commission uses for its own purposes.”
“As of now, no one can confirm if the dead young man in question was an internet fraudster.
Mr Adejemi who represents Kogi West Senatorial District at the National Assembly, described Mr Usman-Ododo’s emergence as a “sham.”
On a year-on-year basis, electricity supply declined by 8.53 per cent compared to 5,493 (Gwh) reported in Q3 2021,” the report said.
Serving senators and Senators-elect from the South-east on Sunday rejected the zoning of the senate presidency to the South-south as well as the endorsement of Mr Akpabio for the position.
Mr Bello expressed delight in the capacity of the APC candidate to deliver even more wins for the party in the state.
“When we announced the increment of the minimum wage to N40,000 at this venue last year, I expected that the federal government and other state governments would follow suit immediately but I am surprised that it has taken them one year already.
“The proposed railway network will surely stimulate the type of economic activities required to place the region on the fast lane of development.
He has been shortlisted to be honoured as one of the Most Valuable Parliamentarians of the 9th Assembly.
Nigerian woman faces deportation after 37 years in the US
Sudan Crisis: Death toll rises to 822 – Doctors Union
Abubakar Hashim of the Department of Computer Science was appointed as the Head of the Software Development Unit.
“The Inspector General of Police should, as a matter of urgency, remove, investigate and sanction the Adamawa State Commissioner of Police for providing cover and enabling the perpetration of this grievous criminal act against our democracy.”
Mr Shehu did not address the crux of the Punch editorial as he made no effort to justify why the administration was embarking on such ‘non-essential’ projects at its twilight.
“Nevertheless, we believe that INEC must always be up and doing, and they must put attention to details to ensure that things are properly done for all political parties.”
The victim, Stanley Ogwo, was abducted on Thursday in the state, according to a report by the Punch newspaper.
The national carrier idea was raised many years after Nigeria’s defunct carrier, Nigeria Airways, collapsed due to corruption and poor management.
He said the suit lacked merit in view of the position of the Court of Appeal on similar matters.
He also endorsed Mr Abbas (North-west) and Ben Kalu (South-east) for speaker and deputy speaker of the House of Representatives, respectively.
The Facebook user said the incident happened at Enakwasumpu in Nkpor Agu, a community in Idemili North Local Government of Anambra State.
This, the bureau said, indicated a growth rate of 13.87 per cent.
Amazingly, throwing all caution to the winds, Chimamanda writes “Many believe that the INEC Chair has been “compromised” but there is no evidence of the astronomical US-dollar amounts he is rumored to have received from the President-elect”.
“Since their rescue, they have undergone thorough medical examination along with their babies and are adequately resuscitated and will be handed over to the Borno State Government for further administration.
Mr Umoru stated that management was fully prepared for the inauguration following the conclusion of National Assembly elections and release of list of senators and members-elect by INEC.
Mr Onuoha, a retired professor of geology at the University of Nigeria Nsukka, said the JAMB registrar kick-started the programme across the country in 2017 after creating JAMB Equal Opportunity Group (JEOG), a coalition of people helping to organise the examinations for the candidates.
He said he had also directed local government authorities to commence immediate payment of salaries of health workers across the 17 local government areas of the state.
Cocoa farmers protest eviction from Ondo forest reserve
But the software can also create characters out of whole cloth, going beyond traditional editing software and expensive special effects tools used by filmmakers, blurring the line between fact and fiction to an extraordinary degree.
This, she noted was forcing the applicants to travel to various locations to get their passports renewed.
He, however, added that those who wished to come back should immediately proceed to Port Sudan for onward evacuation.
However, sometime in the year 2000, the agency said it noticed some encroachments within its acquired land in Lagos and a committee was set up to investigate and compel those encroaching to cease and desist from such actions.
“So this presentation is a step in the right direction, and I urge you to utilise the money judiciously to provide some comfort for yourselves and the children left behind,” the minister said.
Mrs Adeyeye also advised the public to report any adverse reactions to the product to NAFDAC on 0800-162-3322 or via email: alert@nafdac.gov.ng
The IPOB leader’s lead counsel, Mike Ozekhome, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), had during the proceedings, urged the court to hear a motion that could help address his client’s fast-deteriorating health conditions in SSS custody.
“We have concluded that it is in the best interest of the campaign and its stakeholders for us to dissolve our council with immediate effect.
The court, swayed by Mr Gadzali’s position, adjourned the case until 27 September.
Governor Ademola Adeleke of Osun State says to address poverty and underdevelopment in the society, public servants must be accorded better treatment.
We must be paid proportionally with the number of days we work.
The Children and Gender Based Violence Magistrate Court in Awka, Anambra State, has remanded A 35-year-old man in prison for allegedly raping his brother’s two-year-old baby.
He further held that the NBC Code, which gives the commission the power to impose a sanction, conflicts with Section 6 of the Constitution, that vested judicial authority in the court of law.
The event, scheduled to take place on 7th May at the Windsor Castle grounds, would feature famous musicians from around the globe.
While in Madinah, the president would be observing the five daily prayers as well as Taraweeh prayer at the Masjid Nabawi before departing for Makkah via Jeddah, late on Wednesday, for the lesser pilgrimage.
Mr Omo-Agege said this in a statement in Asaba on Thursday by his Chief Press Secretary, Sunny Areh.
“The ratification of Saturday, April 15 for the conduct of party primaries for successful aspirants in the concerned states, which will be held simultaneously in Yenagoa, Lokoja and Owerri.
The businessman’s stake is valued at N32.9 billion, going by Transcorp’s share price at market close on Thursday.
Yes, there are many reasons for that and the most obvious being that the presidential candidate is from the South and he is a Muslim and Islam is a minority religion in the South,” he said.
He pledged his government’s support in strengthening Nigeria in the area of employment, migration and cultural diplomacy.
SERAP is seeking “an order of mandamus compelling INEC to promptly, thoroughly and effectively investigate reports of electoral violence..."
Other dignitaries at the event included the Special Adviser to the President on Social Investments, Maryam Uwais; captains of industry, heads of government agencies and parastatals, members of the organised private sector, diplomatic corps; among other senior government officials.
Part of this will involve the CBN helping the FG to properly forecast its revenue as well as helping the FG, on a technical level, identify potential sources of revenue.
“The nation needs his prayers now more than ever.
On 24 July 2020, he delivered the lead judgment of a panel of the Court of Appeal affirming the acquittal of a cousin to former President Goodluck Jonathan, Robert Azibaola, and his wife, Stella Azibaola, accused of money laundering involving $40 million security funds.
As my leader (Doguwa) did mention, when you say you have a consensus candidate, the language for consensus is very simple.
Yes, Nigerians are used to watching their officials move in a circle: a new National Assembly is inaugurated, promises made on constitutional amendments and a President vetoes.
Mr Gide decided to release the pupils after further negotiation by his appointed negotiator, simply known as Abubakar and some of the parents of the abducted students.
The ugliness of yesterday must not define us.
He was awarded the Foreign Policy Association Medal in 2012, the Padma Shri Award by the President of India in 2016, the Ellis Island Medal of Honor and the Business Council for International Understanding’s Global Leadership Award in 2019, and the Distinguished Friends of Singapore Public Service Star in 2021,” the statement said.
Some of the reports were first made public shortly after the declaration of Mr Otti as the governor-elect of the state, according to the statement.
We take our time to do discreet investigation,” she said.
In March 2022, an inter-ministerial committee, led by Evelyn Ngige, the Permanent Secretary at the Ministry of Trade and Investment, invited Ms Umar to defend several allegations against her but she refused to appear before the panel.
He said that his administration had approved the promotion of over 4,000 eligible civil servants to their appropriate grade levels.
Some of the lawmakers-elect commended INEC for a job well done and described their successes as victory for democracy.
“Besides, 13,000 youths have been trained under a Technical and Vocational Education and Training programme in six states comprising Lagos, Ogun, Enugu, Gombe, Kaduna and Nasarawa, while arrangements are underway to provide similar training for 2000 beneficiaries in Edo State.
Sudan became embroiled in a crisis recently when the Sudanese Armed Forces and Rapid Support Forces engaged in a battle of supremacy for the soul of the war-ravaged country.
The APC preferred candidates were, however, no match for the Bukola Saraki and Yakubu Dogara’s tickets.
He advised the doctors not to talk about a 200 per cent pay rise, as it was not feasible.
Many Nigerians have questioned the president’s decision to obtain the loan so close to the end of his administration in the face of an unprecedented level of debt that his government has already taken Nigeria to.
He added that benefits for employees outside the U.S. will align with the employment laws and local practices in each country.
He said long-duration photosensitive cereals are essential for high biomass production (silage/hay) in feed production.
“With this understanding, I have no doubt that with our joint efforts, we will develop friendly relations and the growing close cooperation between our countries to the mutual benefit of our people.
Benjamin Hundeyin, the Lagos police spokesman confirmed this to PREMIUM TIMES via telephone on Monday.
IPI Executive Director Frane Maroević said:
In Degema Local Government Area, Mr Tinubu scored 2,375 votes, while Mr Obi scored 2,212 votes.
Then the party that I seek election under its platform will be aiding and abetting injustice and you expect me to respect that supremacy?
Idu Igariwey, a ranking PDP member from Ebonyi State, and Alhassan Rurum, a member of the NNPP from Kano State, signed the communique.
“But the inability to access roads and the sea to bring the heavy equipment to begin the project have been the problem.
The presidency has defended the Muhammadu Buhari administration after a national newspaper wrote an editorial critical of the government’s activities.
President of Turkey, Tayyip Erdoğan, has joined the list of world leaders that have sent congratulatory and goodwill messages to Nigeria’s President-elect, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu.
It is unclear how he will take it if the party decides to zone the position elsewhere.
“We are seeking an order of this court for leave to withdraw this petition filed on March 19.
At the last summit held in Lagos in December, President Muhammadu Buhari expressed satisfaction with the establishment of the Council, saying it would boost trade relations between the two countries.
Mr Lawan also directed NEMA to mobilise its officers to the affected communities.
The lawmaker, who represents Ekiti/Irepodun/Isin/Oke-Ero federal constituency in Kwara State, was elected into the House in 2018, following the death of his predecessor, Funke Adedoyin.
And then, when you look at it, the expression of interest alone that was paid, look at the APC, the expression of interest form was N30 million and the nomination form was N70 million,” he said.
The acquitted man, Solomon Ohadoma, a 29-year-old civil engineer, grabbed the phone from his alleged debtor, Chidiebere Ahamefula at about 9 a.m. on 9 March along the road after Mr Ahamefula repeatedly failed to pay for a project he did for him.
He said: “Within 24 hours or thereabouts, we would come up with a measure that the candidates that gather in our offices have the opportunity to register.
UK Govt replies PREMIUM TIMES’ enquiry on Peter Obi’s arrest, detention
Continental leaders should use summitry to bypass international relations complexities and exercise their bargaining power in a new age of multilateralism.
At the hospital’s medical emergency centre, a patient’s relative confirmed that the operations were still on, adding that he didn’t experience any delay.
To address the problem, Mr Gbajabiamila mandated the Chairman of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs to summon the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama, officials from the Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NIDCOM) and the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) to brief the House.
The experts will, among others, offer insights on how to cover ocean and climate stories that are relevant to local and international audiences.
“There was traffic along the Onikan axis due to the May Day celebration, and in an attempt to outwit each other, the hawkers were everywhere and along the hustling, one of them ran into my car’s side mirror and damaged it.
“Furthermore, in my resolve to cater for the families of disease personnel, over 50,000 children and wards of personnel who died in active service on the Nigerian Army Scholarship from 2015 to date.
The deceased’s teenage son was shot dead by police days earlier.
And no pregnancy, no childbirth.
The statement said Governor Nasir El-Rufai on receipt of the intelligence directed the Ministry of Internal Security and Home Affairs to liaise with the 1 Division Nigerian Army for the urgent evacuation of the students to Kaduna Metropolis.
11:41am: Wole Olanipekun (SAN) announces appearance for Mr Tinubu (respondent).
The Police Service Commission (PSC) has approved the deployment of new Commissioners of Police (CPs) for 11 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT).
3 Laws of Jigawa State.
The Service Public Relations Officer (SPRO), Comptroller of Immigration, Tony Akuneme, who disclosed this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Sunday in Abuja, also indicated that eight other officers had been dismissed from service for the same offence in the last one year.
In the audio clip, the LP candidate asked Mr Oyedepo to help spread his message to Christians in the South-west and parts of North-central, noting that the just concluded presidential election was a “religious war.”
To find suitable candidates for the two positions, the coalition set up a 13-member committee drawn from different parties.
For instance, Mr Tinubu’s win in Rivers State cannot be explained without referencing the support from Nyesom Wike, Governor of Rivers State and leader of the PDP G5 governors who alienated themselves from their party’s candidate due to zoning-based dissent.
The spokesperson, Jigawa State Ministry of Justice, Zainab Baba-Santali, in a statement on Friday, said the offences were contrary to Sections 100, 342, 97 & 221 of the penal Code Cap.
During her tenure she said she donated rice, books, nutritional packs to malnourished children in Sierra Leone, Burundi, Ghana, Côte d’Ivoire, Liberia, Senegal, The Gambia, Sao Tome and Principe, the Republic of Nigeria and Guinea Bissau.
“Anyone who fails to meet the standard will be asked whether or not he comes from Ebonyi.
God sent technology to my rescue, with Permanent Voters’ Card (PVC).
During the debate on the general principle of the bill on Thursday, Mr Johnson said it was only fair for medical practitioners, who enjoyed taxpayer subsidies on their training, to “give back to the society.”
The fire was triggered by a power surge which caused some electrical appliances to explode.
The retired officer, however, said Mr Ohadoma would need some witnesses to testify in court that he (Ohadoma) did not use any weapon against the debtor when he grabbed the phone.
He clarified that the visa ban is specific to certain individuals and is not directed at the Nigerian people or the Government of Nigeria as a whole.
But I have strong information that the boy was among those they (authorities of the RRS Unit Awkuzu) killed unjustly,” he stated.
The report, titled “The Security Situation in Kaduna State from 1 January to 31 December, 2022,” covered security issues ranging from banditry and terrorism, kidnapping, rape perpetrated by armed bandits, cattle rustling, communal and inter- ethnic clashes, violent attacks, and reprisal attacks.
Ekiti is a peaceful place and when there is security, there will be progress.”
Census: FEC approves N15.3 billion for ICT devices to aid exercise
It added that the 34 others that were built within FAAN’s perimeter fence and mostly erected above the aviation fuel pipeline and waterways, clearly posing direct safety and security challenges to the Airport as well as to their owners/ occupants themselves, were marked for demolition.
Hudu Yunusa Ari, Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), of Adamawa State pending the completion of investigation by the Inspector General of Police on the conduct/actions of the REC during the Supplementary election in Adamawa State.
It is a far departure from the character of a man I have known for 24 years,” he said.
President Muhammadu Buhari had alongside Chad’s Transitional President Idriss Déby-Itno, condemned the situation in Sudan with the former describing it as unwelcome and unfortunate.
Both aircraft arrived minutes apart.
Mr Tinubu also asked members of his party, APC, to come out en masse to vote during the supplementary elections.
Speaking on the regulatory framework for supporting the utilisation of innovative technology for feed production, Godwin Oyediji, the founder of Animal Science Association of Nigeria, said the nation needs regulation to support the upstream industry in Nigeria.
An official of the oil giant, who asked not to be named, told PREMIUM TIMES that the identified leaking pipelines could belong to other gas companies.
$382,000 Fraud: How Suspected Fraudster duped his victims from 13 Countries in a Bitcoins Scam
He said this is a contribution to the world and better well-being for all.
And we’re very confident and hopeful that we shall not lose any Nigerian life Insha Allah shall in this exercise.
“I told him I am married but he insisted on asking if my husband has money.
The ruling bars the commission from imposing fines on broadcast stations breaching the broadcasting codes.
“The fulfilment of this task will be facilitated by the successful implementation of the Ukrainian initiative “Grain from Ukraine”, which is designed to significantly increase the supply of grain to African countries in order to prevent famine,” the letter read.
Mr Sirika, a former senator, maintained that the issue of the planned demolition of the aviation agencies’ building is of national interest, insisting that there is no individual who can stop the government from initiating an action.
It’s a race that features 21 stages and is regarded as one of the toughest in the sport.
*Victim Company B: $1,270,645.00
1228 Jahi, Abuja; four hectares of land designated as Plot No.CP6386 and Plot No.CP6387, Sabon Lugbe, Abuja.
“So, my dear children, you are welcome home and I pray that the meaningful names you are being bestowed with today will manifest in all your endeavours.
The APC also adopted Barau Jibrin and Ben Kalu as deputy senate president and deputy speaker of the House of Representatives.
Also in attendance at the Asaba meeting were state chairpersons and secretaries of the party and its presidential candidate, Peter Obi.
“Open support to opposition party candidates by hosting the NNPP gubernatorial candidate and the PDP Akko federal house of representatives candidate in his residence and offered support against the interest of his party, the APC among many other instances.
Mr Kalu was psoecuted and convicted of stealing public funds while he was Abia governor.
But Mr Obi, on his part, has been attending court whenever his case came up since Monday,
“Obviously, he will continue to be fully engaged, making phone calls, trying to secure a 24-hour ceasefire, which will enable a much-needed reprieve to all affected civilians in Khartoum,” he said.
The news of his passing is coming at a time when industry practitioners are yet to come to terms with the news of the death of one of its veterans, Saint Obi.
On 21 September 2022, the court ordered the commencement of the defendant's trial in absentia after he failed to appear before the court.
“Scores were later ascribed and credited to” to Mr Tinubu “in respect of Orlu, Orsu and Okigwe Local Government Areas of Imo State, where no election held.”
He would later raise his stake to 6.3 per cent, placing him at that point in the second position behind UBA Nominees, which holds 9.3 per cent.
This is contained in a statement on Monday from the police spokesperson in the state, SP Onome Onovwakpoyeya.
*Four (4) Rolex watches
The genre was named ‘Fuji’ by the Late Sikiru Ololade Ayinde Balogun, popularly known as Ayinde Barrister, after seeing an artiste’s advert for Mount Fuji, the highest peak in Japan.
“It did not reflect the overall seriousness of this offence.”
Kelvin Emmanuel, Chief Executive Officer of Dairy Hills, explained that the new move is a reflection of government’s misplaced priority.
Nigerians now look back with utter shock as they survey the debris and litter of mangled bodies, destroyed ballot boxes, stolen or torn ballot papers.
The lawsuit is the latest phase of the clash between Seplat Energy’s CEO Roger Brown and some stakeholders.
Mr Shehu said that the council also approved post-contract consultancy amounting to N3.4 billion for the construction of the second runway and associated facilities at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja.
You live along with everyone in the House, you don’t have enemies, you have only friends?
Today, P&ID’s only activity is its legal effort to secure Nigeria’s payment of the arbitration award.
The trial had begun before Justice Aikawa and witnesses were still being led in evidence until Mr Aikawa was transferred out of the Lagos division.
Mr Emefiele said that improved security would help in addressing the challenge of food scarcity occasioned by the inability of farmers to go to farms.
Let’s get into the review, shall we?
“I know he (Tinubu) carries a Nigerian passport.
The minister said the second contract was a fresh contract for the maintenance of the pavement of the third mainland bridge.
Hitherto FAAN has not bought new trucks in 15 years.
According to information by his colleagues, Mr Afolabi, who is famous for acting in Yoruba movies, slipped in the bathroom at his house in Ikorodu, Lagos, on Sunday morning.
He said the term of reference of the committee was to investigate the financial activities of NDDC in the 2021 and 2022 budget estimates and report back in one week.
Multi-tracking Nigeria has become a compelling project, By Tunde Akanni
Mr Benjamin said: “The board would not abdicate its responsibilities and has consequently, rescheduled all candidates posted to the centre, who could not sit their examination on account of the wrong address or any other reason, to ensure that no candidate misses the examination.”
Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has narrated how a “prejudiced” landlord some decades ago discriminated against him for being an “Ijebu man”, a Yoruba sub-group in South-west Nigeria.
They are not refugees, they have homes,” she stressed.
Before his ministerial duty, Mr Ajibola was President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA).
Binani’s counsel, Mohammed Sheriff, upon resumed hearing in the matter, told Justice Inyang Ekwo of a Federal High Court, Abuja that a notice of discontinuance had been filed to that effect and urged the court to strike out the case.
“My administration also extended maternity leave from four to six months and gave paternity leave to fathers of newborns,” he said.
It is unfortunate that an intellectual of Chimamanda’s stature would rely on rumours and hearsay to pronounce authoritatively on an issue as important as the 2023,elections in her country.
“Our goal is to be the dynamic global energy company of choice that is committed to sustainably delivering energy for today and energy for tomorrow,” he said.
Historically, upsets have come, or been expected, with higher turnout bringing out voters less likely to feel tied to previous voting patterns.
The envoy urged the international community to consider the RSF a terrorist organisation, and hold it legally and morally responsible.
This is in addition to the societal rejection and stigma that we are all facing.
From where, of course, again, we’ll link up and find a way of bringing them back from Jeddah those that succeed in going to Jeddah,” he said.
“I am aware of the development in the Audit Commission, I am aware of the one in the Law Reform Commission and now the Auditor-General and some others,” he said.
Mr Alao said the doctors are overworked because there are insufficient hospital personnel.
He added that a total of 974 terrorists comprising 77 adult males, 364 adult females and 533 children surrendered to troops at different locations within the period.
“We trust your establishment to conduct an intense forensic investigation into this dastardly act, to reveal the perpetrators behind it and bring them to book as soon as practicable.
The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has asked a former minister of Niger Delta Affairs and senator-elect for Akwa Ibom North-West District, Godswill Akpabio, to report at its headquarters in Abuja for interrogation over a corruption investigation against him.
Aside Messrs Adeyemi and Abubakar, Stephen Ocheni (a professor), Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the APC, Martala Ajaka and Sanusi Ohiare, are protesting the outcome of the election.
PREMIUM TIMES reported how the body of the late Mr Udeh was found in a bush at Ninth Mile Bypass in Udi Local Government Area of the state, a few days after he went missing.
He added that NDLEA operatives have thwarted an attempt by a freight agent, Mordi Chukwuemeka, to export 900 grams of Loud, on Saturday.
The command’s spokesperson, Benjamin Hundeyin, also confirmed the information via a text message to this reporter.
“We have kept the faith.
Comparing the data from September 2022 to March 2023, the cost of making a pot of Jollof rice in Onitsha increased by 7.9 per cent, while in Awka, it increased by 2.9 per cent.
The district head has been critical of the activities of the terrorists in the area.
The suspense and secret build-up revolved majorly around sexual affairs.
“It is indeed a sad spectacle to behold fruits and vegetables being sold in close proximity to damaged sewer lines and heaps of garbage.
Before, throughout and after the campaigns, it is on record that Mr Peter Obi maintained his commitment and focus on issues-based campaigns, about a New Nigeria That is Possible, a shift of emphasis from consumption to production, a New Nigeria characterised by inclusion, justice, equity, fairness and prosperity.
At this point, I must remind Nigerian workers that we all have a common battle to wage, one which we must win together.
He has an Instagram following of over 796,000 followers.
The evacuees will be moved in buses from Sudan to Egypt before they will be airlifted to Nigeria.
According to the Academy, both Messrs Olupona and Pate along with other newly appointed members will be inducted on Friday, 29 September with the formal ceremony on Saturday, 30 September.
The resolution was a sequel to a motion sponsored by Sadiq Umar (APC-Kwara).
The statement came barely a month after the 25 February presidential election that produced former Lagos State governor, Bola Tinubu.
“The Commission strongly warned staff in the Judicial arm to shun away all forms of Corruption and Bribery to meet with Corrupt-free Judiciary in the state.
“Defence 10” told the Turku Court of Appeal of Finland that Gibril Massaquoi was taken into the house as a “protected witness” on March 10, 2002.
A coalition of civil society organisations has asked the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to zone the speakership of the 10th House of Representatives to the South-east.
He said on 19 January, commercial banks, including ECOBANK, were summoned to a meeting by the National Security Adviser to the President, Babagana Monguno, in respect of the Amnesty Programme.
It then approached the Court of Appeal to suspend the execution of the order for the release of Mr Kanu from custody pending the Supreme Court’s decision on the competence of the charges.
“The court struck out the suit from its own docket since it no longer has jurisdiction to hear it,” she said.
Gunmen abduct entrepreneur in Anambra
It is to right-size her over-bloated ego of perceived global self-esteem.
Ekiti State Governor, Biodun Oyebanji, has promised to appoint a person with disability into his cabinet so that people with special needs and students of Special Schools will be given due attention in the state.
The first one is Bill No.
Mr Shuaib said to improve demand for health services using existing structures and strategies, the agency partnered with the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation (BMGF) to explore behavioural science approaches and human-centred designs.
He added that since the existing charge had not been served on them, Mr Okoye could not validly amend it.
This, it said, would serve as a deterrent and send “a loud and clear message” to other officers in the force that “impunity can no longer be tolerated by the force.
Others included: Two locally made explosive devices, one iPhone, one H-mobile, three cow horns painted with Biafran Insignia, two Biafran Jewish caps and a Jewish flag, large quantities of weeds suspected to be cannabis sativa and other fetish objects.
Some of the lawmakers who signed the communiqué are Emeka Anohu,(Ihiala Federal Constituency of Anambra State) and Golu Timothy (Pankshin/Kanke/Kanam Federal Constituency of Plateau) both of the 8th Assembly.
Dogo Gide, the terrorist whose gang has been holding 11 pupils of Federal Government College, Yauri, Kebbi State since June 2021, on Monday, released three of the girls.
“I do not know his own recognised chairman is in my ward.
The Kaduna State Government is aware that we have an endowment on infrastructure which runs into billions.
How can the promoters of the Commission convince the world against bias, with the religious insensitivity burden evident in only two muslims being included in the 10-member body, who are neither media scholars nor media professionals?
Rivers APC, Mr Nwauju, said is “focused on pursuing justice by challenging the outcome of the flawed 18 March elections at the Elections Petitions Tribunal and cannot be distracted by the antics of Gov.
The country’s de facto president said he remained in control of the army and would only let his rival and former deputy Mohammed Hamdan Daglo, the leader of the RSF, get away “in a coffin.”
I met him two nights ago, I will sustain that,” Mr Shettima said.
“In both Adamawa and Kebbi where the elections would be held, I make a special appeal to voters to ensure that PDP enjoys overwhelming support,’’ Atiku pleaded.
This is just as operatives in Lagos arrested two suspects: Nonso Peter, 21, and Bright Chibike, 23, with 43.4kg cannabis at Ile-Epo, Abule Egba area of the state on Friday.
He was called to the Nigerian bar in 1984, marking the beginning of his legal career of about 39 years.
But the press statement didn’t address any of the questions raised in the email.
The new Vice President joined the bank in the trading room of its Treasury Department in 1991 as a finance assistant, where she worked until 1993 when she became an investment officer.
“It has been a rare privilege for me to serve as your President since you gave me the first mandate in 2015 and renewed it in 2019,” he said.
Mr Ikenga, a deputy superintendent of police, said the Commissioner of Police in the state, Echeng Echeng, presented the cheques to the families on behalf of the IGP.
According to the minister, the infrastructure and staffers are ready and only await final approval by the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO).
He noted that the continuous intimidation of youth is evidence that Nigerians do not want a government controlled by the APC.
“This is, as well as minor communication gap between the FCDA, the Federal Government Transition Committee and the NLC,’’ he said.
The sector commander added that the injured passengers were evacuated to Alex Ekwueme Federal Teaching Hospital in Abakaliki for treatment.
The 250-seater KAAF Auditorium is said to have been built at a total cost of N315 million.
I am going to take a cue from him and I am still going to try as much as possible to bring in my own expertise,’’ he said.
“However, I do not know, and am unable to relate to something known as the “Obidient” or “Obidient Family”.
But this decision has left many applicants stranded with the examination body’s office in Lagos recording rowdiness, especially within the last one week.
The Nigerian government on Thursday inaugurated the Special National Food and Nutrition Media Team as part of efforts to drive the success of nutrition programmes and interventions in the country.
Mr Ginikanwa said the abductors, who were about 10 in number and wore masks, invaded the victim’s house in a Toyota Sienna vehicle and shot into the air for several minutes before gaining entrance into the compound.
*Healthcare workers are also advised to practice standard precautions at all times: such as wearing of gloves while handling patients or providing care to an ill patient/relative.
The BBC also reports that the Director of the Jenner Institute at the University of Oxford, Adrian Hill, stated that the R21 vaccine is expected to “make a major impact on malaria mortality in children in the coming years.
This platform generates fake sake-breaking news on a popular news channel.
Supporters of Mr Iwuanyanwu’s emergence argue that it is “prerogative right of Imo State” to nominate a new president-general of the group to complete the remaining two years of Mr Obiozor’s four years tenure.
Just like what happened to me in London, even if I was stopped, they can call it I was stopped or even detained.
Took it to an Apple dealer: N320,000 to change both.
Adejoh Siaka, the officer who slapped the unidentified man was demoted from the rank of an inspector to a sergeant after an administrative trial, the spokesperson for the Force Headquarters, Muyiwa Adejobi said in a statement on Tuesday.
The Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Idris Wase, has officially joined the speakership race – in a defiant move against the decision of his party to zone the position to the North-west.
He highlighted four P’s for the government to focus on which include, planning and targeting, provide power and financial resources, protecting local infant industries including MSMEs and patronise made-in-Nigeria goods
Labour Party presidential candidate, Peter Obi, was last week detained in London by the United Kingdom immigration officials for alleged impersonation.
Police officers on patrol must wear approved uniform – Official
He said Mr Tinubu met the constitutional benchmark of scoring 25% in two-thirds of 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory, according to INEC.
“Our work is 24 hours on and we are in contact with all student groups.
On Saturday, the former Managing Director of the Nigerian Ports Authority, Hadiza Bala Usman, launched a 196-page book to detail some important events that defined her five-year leadership in office.
However, the spokespersin for the Segun Oni Campaign Organisation, Jackson Adebayo, told PREMIUM TIMES that there was no discussion of a truce.
Notorious banditry kingpin, Dogo Gide, has released four of the remaining 11 female pupils of Federal Government College Yauri after a six-day negotiation with their parents.
Recently in Congo, they endorse an election that was an absolute sham but the same US will turn around and criticize Congo for not being democratic.
To that end, the Program aims to facilitate access to services by providing proof of government-recognized identity in participating countries,” he said.
PDP reacts to Binani’s suit on Adamawa governorship election as collation of results resumes
This was to witness the punishment of one child, instilling fear in others of similar treatment so far as they were concerned,” the three-member panel wrote in their judgement.
President-elect Bola Tinubu has promised to work for the country without marginalising any part in areas of development.
Anambra, highest in childhood Tuberculosis in Nigeria – Official
to better meet the needs of our consumers, shareholders, and employees,” CEO Carl Cruz said in a statement issued in the last week of March.
The suit was filed by Abayomi Awoniyi, Abdullahi Haruna, Ruben Atabo, Mohammed Usman, Musa Wada, Kingsley Lona, Gedion Ojata, and M. Bolufemi.
On 10 June 2022, he pleaded guilty to cruelty to a person under 16 years old and was sentenced on 12 October 2022 by the Crown Court in Woolwich.
The commission said all the defendants conspired to commit money laundering offences contrary to section 18(a) of the Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act, 2011, and punishable under section 15(3) and (4) of the same law.
“At the same time, the discretionary import duty waiver allocation system needs to be replaced with a clearly defined industry-wide incentive system that supports export-oriented firms,” it said.
Causes, prevention and remediation: A call for Community participation”, said storms and floods were responsible for about 79 per cent of erosion.
In Adamawa, the elections will be held in a total of 69 polling units (PUs) and 142 PUs in Kebbi States with 36,935 and 94,209 eligible voters, respectively participating.
Wasiu Ayinde, popularly known as Kwam 1 or K1 De Ultimate, has also infused other genres into his music.
There have been at least four failed attempts to reach a ceasefire agreement between the warring parties and open a humanitarian corridor.
However, when journalists asked the NDLEA’s lawyer on the reason for the application, he said it was to give protection to intelligence officers scheduled to testify in the case.
This offered the opportunity to hear from some of the most prominent voices in global leadership and governance on the challenges and prospects facing African leadership.
“In 2021, I again wrote to the relevant agencies (by letters dated January 22, 2021), informing them of the movement of those funds out of the country to purchase a property as a better investment decision, instead of the funds lying idly in the account whilst I am in public office,” the minister said.
EFCC accused the suspect of defrauding his victims in 13 countries of $382,000 worth of bitcoins.
But the apex court upheld the decisions of the tribunal and Court of Appeal in affirming the governor as duly elected.
The Centre for Journalism Innovation and Development (CJID) with funding support from the Center for International Private Enterprise (CIPE) is set to hold a three-day workshop for investigative journalists and CSOs on tracking corrosive and constructive capital inflows to Nigeria.
"The action of the REC is a usurpation of the power of the Returning Officer.
Similarly, the plaintiff asked for “an order directing and placing on notice any form of handover, inauguration, organized and superintended by (Mr) Buhari on 29 May 2023 outside the adjudged winner of the 2019 presidential election.”
“1st petitioner was screened as a presidential aspirant of the PDP in Apni 2022.
DATA: What the voting pattern in 2023 presidential election is telling us
A large part of our practice at Fred-Young & Evans Legal Practitioners is company law.
Court sentences four to death for murder, teacher to life imprisonment for raping minor
It said Mr Obi “as at 30 April, 2022, was still a member of the PDP and his name was not and could not have been in the register of members submitted by by…” LP to INEC.
Governor Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia State says there was a “deliberate attempt” by some unnamed persons to deny Igbo-speaking people of the South-east an opportunity to produce a Nigerian president in 2023.
The main opposition retained Adamawa, Bauchi, and Taraba states.
In its judgement, the Court of Appeal said the trial Crown Court in Woolwich overlooked “multiple aggravating factors” in imposing its sentence.
The Nigerian Anthropological and Sociological Practitioners Association (NASA) is the body established for the regulation of teaching and practice of Sociology in Nigeria.
The application was brought pursuant to Order 34 Rules 1a, Order 3(1) & 3(2) a, b, c, Order 6 of the Federal High Court (Civil Procedure Rules), 2019 and Section 251 (1)q & r of the 1999 Constitution, as well as Section 149 & 152 of the Electoral Act, 2022.
Others were former Governors Peter Odili (Rivers), Bisi Akande (Osun), James Ibori (Delta), Kayode Fayemi (Ekiti), Timipre Sylva (Bayelsa) and Ayo Fayose (Ekiti).
At N464.00 per $1, the local unit has declined by at least 0.65 per cent within four months into this year amidst lingering forex scarcity, a decline in foreign reserves and the adverse effects of the naira redesign policy.
Hence, AMS and its defined set of actions for optimising antibiotic use are of paramount importance,” he said.
He then withdrew the amended charge that had the Supreme Court official as a defendant.
The police were investigating the incident, the police spokesperson said.
On his part, Rotimi Olowo (Shomolu I) said there were several government officials parading themselves with many names without appearing before the House for clearance.
He was appointed to the Court of Appeal bench on 5 November 2012, about 10 years ago and over two years after Mr Tsammani.
He added that Mr Obali, one of the arrested suspects, is the chief priest of the syndicate and that their second hideout also served as their shrine.
Olalekan Ponle, better known as Woodberry, has pleaded guilty to a fraud charge at a United States district court, PREMIUM TIMES can report.
The circles have gone on and on.
UK court jails man 20 years for rape, acknowledges negligence of Nigerian police
She argued that the offender did not have deliberate disregard for his son’s welfare but instead wanted to instil proper standards in him.
“APC, as a party, merited all it got at the polls,” the governor added.
“To my mind, the evidence of the prosecution is overwhelming in proving all the above ingredients,” the magistrate held.
MIKE OZEKHOME, SAN BAGS ANOTHER VISITING PROFESSORSHIP FROM THE ABIA STATE UNIVERSITY, UTURU,ABIA STATE
But on Monday, CAN described the advertorial as “insensitive, offensive, and totally unacceptable.”
It will be very helpful if we know the specs of these firefighter trucks as you called them.
The case was listed for further hearing between 6 and 10 June 2022.
“The commission commends the federal government in its effort in 2022 which led to the emergence of Nigeria as the only African country that had been in full compliance in terms of the protection of the rights of journalists with one incident of death of a journalist recorded from infractions, as reported by the Committee for the Protection of Journalist,” he said.
The rival paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF), which has been openly fighting the Sudanese army for the past week, also said in a statement it was “ready for a complete ceasefire” to allow evacuations.
I don’t know about dual citizenship.
“All road users going into and out of Lagos are therefore advised to explore alternative routes.
Mr Idoatan also appealed to the Head of Service of the Federation and the Attorney General of the Federation to give their support for the signing of the bills.
Others are APGA with five, ADC two, SDP two and YPP one.
Mr Buhari spoke at length about his retirement proposal, saying that he intended to be at home in Daura for six months before moving eventually to Kaduna.
The vice president is also expected to hold bilateral meetings with Ruto and the British Minister of State for Development and Africa, Andrew Mitchell.
“When we were talking about Diaspora voting, some people were saying when we do that, it may not augur well.
The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) police command had in February arrested Mr Aigbe, after a video clip of him carrying a gun during a Sunday church service went viral on social media platforms.
He added that candidates, who successfully took the test on 30th March, and whose results have been released, are not eligible for the rescheduled mock examination.
In a video that went viral, the members had in a voice vote unanimously endorsed the speaker’s impeachment over so many allegations levelled against him.
The Foundation’s Now Generation Network also led a series of parallel events, including an In Conversation With… Hanan Morsy, Deputy Executive Secretary of the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa, to discuss the need for debt restructuring and reform of the financial multilateral system.
“You’re wasting our precious time telling us to condemn it.
Their best performance was in 2015 when they lost to African rivals Nigeria in the final.
The state Chairman of the environmental society, Uchenna Onyeizu, said the day was set aside to remind everyone of their behaviour towards the Mother Earth.
“The REC, Returning Officer and all involved are hereby invited to the Commission’s Headquarters in Abuja immediately.
He listed other infractions to include: manipulation of election material(s) reverse logistics, intimidation and harassment of voters, massive thumb-printing of ballot papers, destruction of electoral materials, hijack of electoral materials, mutilations, cancellations, and overwriting on result sheets as well as inflation, deflation of scores and wrong entries in result sheets.
Both groups are reported to be locked in a power struggle which has led to the death of over 500 people.
Ibrahim Gambari says President Buhari is leaving many legacies for the incoming administration to build on
It said Bayelsa recorded the least with 1,571,692, followed by Ebonyi and Ekiti with 1,920,996 and 2,001,846 respectively.
PREMIUM TIMES exclusively reported that PGF had in a memo called for the intervention of Mr Tinubu on the zoning of the principal offices of the federal parliament.
Dignitaries at the event included the Governor of Kebbi State, Atiku Bagudu, while the Gombe State Governor, Muhammad Yahaya, was represented by his deputy, Manassah Jatau.
Mr Fintiri promised to deliver more democratic dividends for the development of the state in his second term.
So why couldn’t the presidential results be uploaded on the same system?” We can thus presume that she finds the National Assembly elections credible and acceptable because they were uploaded.
Why gunmen killed US officials in Nigeria – Gov Soludo
The former NIMASA official gives the reason why he should be excused from the N1.1 billion fraud trial initiated by EFCC.
Nigerian army’s fighting power significantly increased since 2015 – Buhari
Mr Massaquoi, who was acquitted by the Pirkanmaa District Court of Tampere of all his charges a little over a year ago, because it was unconvinced prosecutors had proven them “beyond a reasonable doubt,” did follow the proceedings from the Court by a video link under security protection.
However, if the crescent is not sighted that day, then the 22nd, of April 2023, automatically becomes the day of Sallah.
Find the full list of committees with their members here.
The party has 36 seats, trailing the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) which have 177 and 116 respectively.
”The NHRC has launched Investigations on hate speech committed before, during and after the elections,” he said.
Speaking at the roundtable, Vivian Painstil, a senior lecturer at the Department of Child Health, Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology (KNUST), Kumasi, Ghana, said there is a need for quality medical intervention for people suffering from the disease.
They have formed a coalition called the Coalition of Progressive Speakership Aspirants (COPSA) to fight Mr Abbas.
Mr Saidu, the leader of the Arewa Community in Southern Nigeria, said endorsing Mr Akpabio for the Senate Presidency would spell doom for Northern Nigeria.
The defence team led by O. Agbede, in their separate responses, prayed for an adjournment to enable each defendant to file a counter affidavit to the application sought by the prosecutor.
He argued that contrary to the submissions of the applicant, the Kogi State High Court or any other court in Nigeria had not stopped the EFCC from carrying out its constitutional duties.
The post-trauma counselling and psycho-social treatment are planned by NiDCOM, with the Ministry of Health, and Refugees Commission in partnership with the Aliko Dangote Foundation.
He said that it is “elating and morale-boosting” that the complainant is willing and the matter will be taken to court.
As this ‘new Cold War’ hots up – accelerated by Russia’s Ukraine invasion – powerful nations are working feverishly to establish allies and adversaries.
Ibrahim Dewu, a rear admiral and the immediate past Flag Officer Commanding (FOC) Eastern Naval Command, disclosed this in Calabar while handing over the leadership of the command to his successor, Olusola Oluwagbire, also a rear admiral.
Mr Oyeyemi said the bank officials had gone to recover a loan but were told by his wife that the debtor was not home.
How can you buy 10 fire trucks for 12bn Naira @1.2bn each?
General Elections: NHRC lists states with high voter suppression, rights violations in new report
Mr Omotuyi had set out two questions for determination by the court.
“This is just a sample of what can be done in Argentina thanks to the trust deposited in us by Nigeria’s government.
Presidential Election Petition Court dismisses first petition filed against Tinubu’s victory
Communities around Nwaniba in Uyo are notorious for cult-related killings and violence.
The Nigerian National Committee of the International Press Institute (IPI Nigeria) on Tuesday inaugurated three standing committees to help drive the organisation’s objective of promoting journalism practice and media freedom in Nigeria.
President Buhari had on Wednesday requested the approval of the Senate to obtain a $800 million World Bank facility to finance the National Safety Net Programme.
The Court of Appeal in Abuja on Friday affirmed the eight years of jail time for Abdulrasheed Maina, a former chairperson of the defunct Pension Reform Task Team (PRTT), for stealing over N2 billion in pension funds.
He added that the letters were duly acknowledged, and that he followed up with the heads of the said agencies via Whatsapp chats the same day, informing them of the delivery of the letters and the contents of the letters.
The judge, James Omotosho, in a judgement, also set aside the N500,000 fines imposed, on 1 March 2019, on each of the 45 broadcast stations.
“We’re in a serious situation in the area because of fear of reprisal attacks.
Later that year, on 4 December 2020, Mr Adah led a panel of justices that affirmed the death penalty imposed on Maryam Sanda, in a celebrated murder case in which the woman was accused of stabbing her husband, Bilyaminu Bello, to death.
“The commission has also set up a panel of investigation, comprising both members of the commission and the Nigeria Police Force to investigate these allegations.
The startup ecosystem still faces significant challenges, such as access to funding, support infrastructure, and skilled talent.
Real reasons census was postponed – Official
“Research from the Stockholm Environment Institute (SEI) has shown that the pipeline would also endanger population centres, wetland sites, rivers and lakes,” Africa Report said in a publication dated 9 February, 2022.
President Muhammadu Buhari would later grant a widely condemned pardon to Mr Dariye alongside a former governor of Taraba, Jolly Nyame, after their conviction and jailing had been affirmed by the Supreme Court.
The People of Ozalla Community in Nkanu West Local Government Area of Enugu State have vowed not to rest until the killers of Dons Udeh, a governorship aspirant of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) in Enugu State, are arrested.
In reaction, the acting governor, Lucky Aiyedatiwa, threatened dire consequences if the decision was not rescinded, thus calming frayed nerves.
“Abuja-Kano is the biggest of the three projects in terms of scope, in terms of size, in terms of budget; it is 375 kilometres.
“Air pollution and climate change are jeopardising the very habitability of our planet;
“There was an accident that led to the death of a motorcyclist, and rather than the people around helping, they resorted to jungle justice by killing the young man and setting his car ablaze,” she said.
The police have confirmed the attack.
Why Nigeria plays stabilising role in Africa – Buhari
New Singer Khaid also made an energetic performance of his hit song ‘Carry me go’ ft Boy Spyce at the concert.
He said: “While congratulating our member states and development partners for achievements over the last year, we are greatly concerned that malaria deaths remain unacceptably high, and cases have continued to increase since 2015.
Abuja, a member of the commission, Clara Ogunbiyi, who represented the chairman, said it has been a difficult task to oversight the police with the myriads of challenges facing the commission.
He listed such policies as the Public Liability, Contractors All Risk (CAR) and other prescription of Sections 64 & 65 of the Insurance Act, with regards to public buildings.
The Acting Head of the beneficiary department, Oluyemisi Folasire, assured that the auditorium would be a dedicated space to deliver lectures, presentations, discourses and performances to large audiences, facilitating effective communication, knowledge sharing, and community engagement.
The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) said a police officer on duty died in a road accident reportedly caused by a speeding truck belonging to Dangote cement factory in Ogun State.
The alleged offence contravenes Section 199 of the Penal Code.
The News Agency of Nigeria, (NAN) reports that the panel started sitting on Monday to hear petitions filed by aggrieved presidential candidates who are challenging the victory of Bola Tinubu and the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the disputed 2023 presidential election.
FAAN set to demolish buildings erected on airport lands
He said the INEC under the leadership of Mahmood Yakubu is corrupt for requesting that the petition filed by presidential candidate of PDP, Atiku Abubakar, be dismissed.
“Taxi lights” are lights installed on the nose gear strut or wings of aeroplanes.
An official says 13 suspects have been arrested within the zone.
The effort is one of several focused on addressing the disease that kills over 600,000 each year, most of which are children.
NAN reports that the convict, in his plea for mercy, told the court that he was sorry, and asked Mr Ahmed, who was present in court, to forgive him.
Many Nigerians have demanded an explanation of the expenditure since the ministry of foreign affairs made the announcement.
A 21-year-old member of the US Air National Guard accused of leaking top secret military intelligence records online was charged on Friday with unlawfully copying and transmitting classified material.
An indigene of Eastern Obolo, who requested that his name should not be mentioned in the report because of concern for his safety and security, admitted that part of the plantation had been destroyed but not the entire coconut plantation as claimed by the governor.
Affiong Etim, a woman in her 70s, was among the aged people seated on the tiled floor in the ATM gallery at the First Bank in Oron, Oron Local Government Area, Akwa Ibom State, on a Monday morning, in March 2023.
How I was rigged out from being elected as member of Edo Assembly – Labour Party candidate
He said the ministry as a leading stakeholder in the administration of justice will continue to support stakeholders to ensure that the reformation of the justice sector aligns with the international best practice.
The Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, in a press release signed by his Special Adviser on Communications, Hakeem Bello, said he empathizes with members of the public who have had to endure longer than usual traffic as the reconstruction work in the heavily built-up stretch progresses towards the finish line.
The country’s influential business newspaper explained that it named him the winner of the award for his “visionary and leadership qualities [that] has brought tremendous change to the FIRS.”
The IGP said the target should be to ensure a crime-free and peaceful environment for religious, cultural and other socio-economic activities during Easter.
Kingsley Chinda, a PDP member of the House from Rivers State, is the co-chairman of the coalition.
“I want to use this opportunity to communicate my desire to contest for the office of the Speaker of the House.
This year, JAMB said about 1.6 million candidates registered to take part in the examination which has been scheduled to hold between 25 April and 2 May.
However, the spokesperson of the Police Command in the state, Gambo Isah, said they were investigating the veracity of the information.
Read the full message below
(This article was first published by ISS Today, a Premium Times syndication partner.
The governors also recommended that the lawmakers from South-west and North-east should be discouraged from vying for any of the presiding offices because the president-elect and the vice president-elect are from the two geopolitical zones.
Four attempts at a ceasefire failed last week.
The prosecutor, Olarewaju Osho, told the court that Mr Akilu was arrested by a team of police officers from Asokoro Police Station on 15 March.
The lawyer urged the court to grant him bail.
Recent media reports have put a spotlight on the $800 million facility to be secured by the Federal Government of Nigeria from the World Bank for assistance to vulnerable Nigerian populations.
The committee is chaired by the most senior lawmaker in the House, Nicholas Mutu (PDP, Delta), who has been in the lower chamber since 1999.
Ms Okpe said four male adults and one female adult were injured, “one person was killed, while two came out of the accident unhurt.”
This was followed by Kaduna – 37 per cent, Nasarawa – 36 per cent, Taraba – 36 per cent, Kano – 35 per cent and Niger – 33 per cent.
“Because of the importance we attach to civil service to drive our government, we constituted a powerful committee for restructuring of the civil service on assumption of office four years ago.
Before Saturday’s supplementary elections, Mr Fintiri led Mrs Binani with over 30,000 votes.
The petitioner anchored its complaint on the basis that Mr Tinubu “corruptly induced” electoral officers at local government and state collation centres in “Kano, Kaduna, Imo, Rivers, Kebbi, Oyo, Ogun, Ekiti, Osun, Kogi and Kwara states” with a view to alter the presidential election results in his favour.
Sudan Crisis: Nigerian embassy facilitates students’ transfer to Egyptian universities
Though they told us her hymen is still intact.”
“We counselled about 96 drug users and rehabilitated a number of persons within the period under review.
“More than 4.3 million people also in need of food assistance in northwest Nigeria, resources for the northeast, have been increasingly squeezed.
Parents of Chibok girls who are still being held by Boko haram, told Amnesty International that the Nigerian authorities no longer communicate with them and have ultimately abandoned them.
“Upon seeing the bruises, the paediatrician transferred us to a gynaecologist to run a test, who confirmed the injury and physical trauma as a result of an attempted forced penetration.
“The best thing you can do is to report such a person to the police,” he said.
Indeed, his loyalty to the APC government and party is exemplary.
The police in Anambra State, south-east Nigeria, have made fresh accusations against Nnamdi Emeh, a member of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) arrested for allegedly committing various offences in the state.
Mr Namadi said he will pursue poverty reduction vigorously.
Nigeria needs to spend $100 billion annually for infrastructure — Official
At the resumed hearing on Wednesday, Livy Uzoukwu, Mr Obi’s lead lawyer, informed the court of an agreement by lawyers to parties in the petition to file and exchange necessary documents for a smooth hearing of the substantive petition.
Ms Moeti noted that the first malaria vaccine recommended by WHO to prevent malaria in children (also known as RTS,S) is saving lives.
The 62-year-old has less than two years on the Court of Appeal bench as he was appointed on 28 June 2021, the last time judges were appointed to the Court of Appeal bench.
The party accused INEC officials of looking away while over-voting was on at the polling units.
“Nigerian journalists should therefore be seen as patriotic citizens because their duties are provided for in the Constitution.
The law authorized the President to deport “aliens,” and also permitted their arrest, imprisonment, and deportation for seditious acts or conduct.
Managing Director of NDDC, Samuel Ogbuku, last month, signed a $15 billion Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with Atlantic Global Resources Inc., a US-based company to build the railway network to connect the nine states in Nigeria’s Niger Delta.
“The Obama two peace agreement was in 2001.”
The NDDC management in its reaction said it signed MoU for a preliminary process for a railway network and not award of contract.
He urged other victims of such acts going through such traumatic experiences in the state to speak out, assuring that it would be pursued to a logical conclusion to get justice for them.
It is null, void and of no effect."
In his recommendation letter, the minister told Mr Buhari that Ms Umar has shown gross incapacity to “serve as chief of NIPC for not attending to both foreign and local investors; stalling pioneer status incentive applications and refusing to participate in the negotiation of bilateral investment treaties between Nigeria and other countries,” sources said.
Inclusion is very key.
The investigation against the officers began in mid-February 2023, about three months after the arrest of the two siblings.
The spokesperson also noted that the commission’s Chairman, Solomon Arase, who is a former Inspector General of Police, expressed displeasure that the constabularies were being owed salary for six months.
“The Inspector General of Police has therefore tasked officers and men of the Force to be diligent and uphold the lofty tenets of professional policing in the discharge of their duties with respect for the fundamental rights of all citizens in line with the provisions of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended),” he added.
EFCC subsequently charged the suspect, who pleaded not guilty.
“When politicians and their sponsors decide to engage in electoral violence and other electoral offences rather than contest fairly for people’s votes, there are possibilities that such politicians will show a disregard for democratic rules and a disposition to adopt illegal means becomes inevitable.”
“Provision of N9 billion support for over 1.6 million vulnerable smallholder farmers for the 2023 wet season farming under the Agriculture for Jobs Plan.
“The next thing this man started telling me was that he was going to send calamity upon calamities upon my family; that members of my family will be dying and that he would deal with me.
The Force spokesperson, Muyiwa Adejobi, in a series of tweets on Sunday said officers on patrol are not allowed to wear any clothes other than the approved uniform.
This has become necessary to retune us towards the May 29, 2023, inauguration of the President-elect Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s administration.
“I am excited to announce the first set of electric buses in the Lagos Mass Transit Master Plan as part of our increased effort to modernise every sector of Lagos,” he tweeted.
SERAP made the call In a letter dated 22 April and signed by Kolawole Oluwadare, its deputy director.
“I am sad that he is no more.
She is a member of professional bodies, such as the Association of Nigerian Universities Professional Administrators (ANUPA), Nigerian Institute of Management (NIM), and a Fellow of Institute of Corporate Administration.
It said only two states, Ekiti and Lagos currently have mental health legislation in the country.
Mr Onifade explained that the high implication of the offence is that the impersonator could be committing all kinds of weighty crimes and other dubious acts and it would be recorded in Obi’s name.
Mr Mgbike revealed that the community had been enmeshed in a traditional rulership crisis since 2005 when a former traditional ruler, John Nnebolisa, died.
However, when the judge came in for the matter, a lawyer, Emmanuel Oluwabiyi, whose case was on number 11 on the cause list, told Mr Nwite that he was in the court for another matter.
Creating consensus between 55 nations is ‘convoluted, politically stressful and difficult,’ notes Bankole Adeoye in his analysis of the AU’s common African positions.
He noted that the earlier suit filed by PDP- controlled states at the Supreme Court had been withdrawn.
Also speaking, Kayode Adetokunbo, the consultant for the project, noted the importance of the project, which includes creating jobs for the teaming Nigerian youth.
Mr Jere noted that major components for producing booklets are sourced from overseas, hence the need for foreign exchange (forex) from the CBN.
“One of the airlines, United, that went to court today, we gave him the licence–the Buhari government and he’s never been to the office of the minister.
Again, FG says Nigeria Air will take off before 29 May
The campaign, targeted at increasing enrolment and retention among girls, is aimed at improving the secondary education of girls in the focal states.
"What they did is illegal," says the traditional ruler-designate.
They are part of the journey to a New Nigeria.
Justice Oguntoyinbo also directed Mr Malami to “challenge the legality of states’ life pension laws permitting former governors and other ex-public officials to collect such pensions.”
The standing committees of the NBA are reconstituted every two years after a new president takes over the leadership of the association.
Had the PDP contested the election as one with Obi and Kwankwaso in its fold, winning the election would have been an uphill, almost impossible, task for the APC.
The Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh Yogi Adityanath ordered a judicial probe into the killings and banned large gatherings in the districts of Uttar Pradesh state to ensure peace.
We look like men and women returning from a funeral, murmuring discontentment in hushed tones.
“They take much of the credit for the quality output of the EBES, especially through the first three years of the project.
You can see the air conditioner, television, everything destroyed and they came and kept it here on the street, two kilometres away from my house.
Other co-respondents include Adedayo Odeyemi, and Adamu Safuratu Idowu, a board member and secretary at the Reynolds companies, respectively.
Court remands man who drove BRT into moving train
Recall that in my declaration last month, I had pleaded with the men to step down, but since they are still contesting, the onus is on me to continue with lobbying.
This legacy project, situated within the premises of the Presidential Villa, had its ground-breaking ceremony conducted by the Chief of Staff to the President, Prof Ibrahim Gambari, on November 1, 2021.
And he has indicated the fact that they are trying to put together the comprehensive response that we have raised.
It shouldn’t be when the crisis happens we start running around,” the NIDCOM chairperson said.
• Idiat Oluranti Adebule – Lagos West
He also knows that the people that are in the chapter executives are not people that won the congresses.
“JUB to ABV = 03:30 min.
“We announce the passing on to the glory of our beloved husband, father and grandfather, Hon.
He accused the central government “of complicity in the killings orchestrated against Benue people by the Fulani herdsmen as represented by Miyetti Allah Kautal, Fulani Nationality Movement, FUNAM and other Fulani socio cultural groups.”
However, the party suffered a significant setback in the region in the last presidential and National Assembly elections.
He, however, said the hospital’s management was ensuring that patients get necessary health care services.
Russia, however, had allowed looting, pillaging, abuse and torture by South Ossetian forces.
“Before now, we have a representative who did very well.
Over 64 million voters were expected to vote to elect a president and parliament for a five-year term.
He was called to the Nigerian bar in 1982, about 41 years ago – a year earlier than Mr Tsammani.
The upper chamber further appealed to the airlines operating in the country not to withdraw their services while efforts were ongoing to resolve the issue.
“Contrary to insinuations on the social media, Embassy staff are very much on ground in Khartoum to coordinate the evacuation exercise to the very end.”
We have seen money politics play out, even though we have not seen it play out in the 10th Senate yet.
The chamber has had nine speakers since the return of democracy in 1999.
“We need the Honourable Minister of Finance, and the Attorney General of the Federation to appear before this House to provide clarity on the inflows that have come in from whistleblowers’ recoveries, and about these monies that were recovered,” he said.
He said countries like Egypt, Tunisia, Morocco and Algeria contribute to the bulk of the three per cent recorded.
Whether they want to read law or sociology in the university or polytechnic,” he said.
“Pending the next convention, NEC suspends Eragbe indefinitely.
The lawmaker represents Biu/Kwaya Kusar/Bayo/Shani Federal Constituency of Borno State and currently serves as the Chairman House Committee on Appropriations.
“Immediately, we envisioned the Red Gold project and prioritised oil palm cultivation.
He however said “anyone with evidence on these allegations should, as a matter of urgency, forward same to the commission”.
Mr Isiguzoro also claimed that “the Ime-Obi Ohanaeze Ndigbo has mandated that every agitation for the 2023 election should come to an end,” adding that “Peter Obi is the candidate of the future and that nobody should pick up a fight they can’t finish, against Bola Tinubu.”
Meanwhile, the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) says it has appealed against the judgement.
He also claimed that Ahmadu Fintiri of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) polled 422,303 votes.
“Government may claim to be doing its best but its best is not good enough, since it is not able to stop the killings in years.
Meanwhile, the APC has also won eight out of the 10 House of Representatives seats covered by the supplementary election.
The lawmakers-elect will also visit the South-west and South-south zones later to drum up support for Mr Batara, who is an APC member.
The eligible voters in the polling unit are less than 40,000.
In August 2020 when President Muhammadu Buhari signed into law the Companies and Allied Matters bill, conferring regulatory roles on the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) to monitor activies of religious and charity organisations, it triggered a public debate as to the propriety or otherwise of the new legislation.
PREMIUM TIMES reported that Mr Malami shunned several invitations by the lawmakers, prompting the committee to issue a seven-day ultimatum for him to appear.
Less than two weeks to the end of his two-term tenure of office, President Muhammadu Buhari will Friday inaugurate the presidential cum Very Important Personalities (VIP) wing of the State House Medical Centre.
•Ensuring proper environmental sanitation by keeping environments clean at all times.
“We unanimously agreed that the country needs someone with the ability and capacity to unify the country, the competence and skills to drive an effective and productive legislature, a bridge builder between the other arms of Government and above all, a man with serene humility, character and fear of God in discharging the duties associated with the office.
The newly appointed acting Heads of Department are Mohammed Danlami, (Microbiology), Yusuf Bashir (Biochemistry and Molecular Biology), Badamasi Saidu (Political Science) and Ali Sherrif (Accounting).
Mr Doguwa said that he believed INEC secured a pass mark in the 2023 general elections, but still has a lot of areas to improve upon.
The drugmaker’s PE ratio is currently 3.7x, while the EPS is N2.43.
Who suckled the royal milk of Oyindamola
Since then the APC has been producing the presiding officers because of its numerical strength in both chambers.
Mr Adejobi also said thrIGP had in the last 18 months renovated some and built no fewer than 125 new police stations with adjoining standard barracks.
The film begins with a young woman, Boma (Bisola Aiyeola), who is wealthy and successful.
Today makes Mr Wali’s seventh day in the kidnappers’ den.
OCCRP further found that Eludoyin is the beneficial owner of 17 U.K. properties through three offshore companies registered in the British Virgin Islands.
He said handing over the steel company to private companies would move the economy of the country backward.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the FEC meeting was presided over by Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo.
Transnational Corporation (Transcorp) Thursday announced the acquisition of 5.5 per cent interest in the company by Nigeria’s businessman Femi Otedola.
She said this will help equip staff with the required skills that would enable them optimally perform their duties.
It said the PDP presidential candidate “failed to score at least one-quarter of the votes cast in at least two-thirds of the 36 states of the federation and the FCT and as such could not have been declared the winner of the presidential election…”
It is placed on the first line charge in the federal budget.
PREMIUM TIMES had exclusively reported that the Progressives Governors Forum (PGF) sent a memo to President-elect, Bola Tinubu to take quick action in zoning the offices.
Tajudeen Abbas and Rt.
Aljazeera reported the group as saying in a statement that some hospitals had been bombed, others attacked and looted.
The president made the call in his Easter Message to Nigerians on Friday in Abuja.
“So, FEC agreed with us and has given a 10-year concession to that company, Messrs Alcuff, to carry out towage services at the Lekki Deep Sea Port and the Dangote Jetty,’’ he said.
One of his sons, Olasoji Adagunodo Jr., confirmed the death.
Mr Obahiagbon who announced the result of the governorship primary on Friday in Lokoja, said Salami Momodu got 1, 506 votes, Abubakar Yahaya-Ashemogu, 1, 159, and Shaaibu Abubakar-Audu, 763 votes.
The eight Nigerians will now be airlifted back to Nigeria from Saudi Arabia, the ministries said in the Saturday statement.
According to him, the victory of the president-elect and vice president-elect, Bola Tinubu, and Kashim Shettima, respectively, and the established control of the APC in 21 out of 36 states, had firmly established the party as a dominant national political party.
In me you will find a dependable ally and co-labourer in the fight for social and economic justice for all Nigerians, including all the working people.
The PCC was set up in October 2022 to prosecute the 2023 presidential election of Bola Tinubu and Kashim Shettima.
The armed soldiers were said to be acting on directives of General Officer Commanding (GOC), 82 Division, Aminu Chinade.
Mr Kalu, who spoke during the celebration of Mass in Abuja to mark his 63rd birthday, said that Mr Tinubu is fit and healthy and would return soon.
Former Vice-President and presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, on Wednesday, visited the Senate Chief Whip, Orji Kalu, over the death of his wife, Ifeoma.
” It encompasses 41 bridges of different sizes.
“Having given us the mandate for the next four years, we will improve on what had been done.
Citing the case of Patrick Njovens & others V the state (1973), it said the appellate court’s decision was a clear departure from the precedent set by the apex court.
Mrs Dahiru has her main rival in the election in Governor Fintiri of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), who scored more votes during the main election on 18 March.
So, we have to manage and divert traffic for the safety of those involved in the construction.
An official said that exporting the surplus electricity would provide additional financial resources for the reconstruction of the destroyed and damaged energy infrastructure.
About seven aspirants including the deputy governor, Edward Onoja, Chief of Staff to Mr Bello, Mohammed Asuku, had withdrawn from the governorship race on Thursday.
It further prayed to the Supreme Court to restore the charge against the IPOB leader for him to be tried at the Federal High Court.
INEC disobeying court judgement on Diaspora voting
“Humanitarians must be able to safely carry out their work.
Nwaniba Road leads to a five-star hotel, the Ibom Hotel & Golf Resort, in the city and the permanent campus of the University of Uyo.
You should avoid making things unlawful, defamatory or likely to cause distress.”
“I want to say that the Northern people are not beggars that will be endorsing people who are not friendly with them because of inducement,” he said.
• Nweze David Umahi – Ebonyi South
“We saw a vehicle without a number plate in Sapele, we asked him to stop but he refused.
Mr Mutu is to be deputised by Abdulmumini Jibrin, a member-elect on the platform of the NNPP from Kano, while Mr Ogene will serve as the secretary.
The panel also has the mandate to investigate all proceeds recovered through the Whistle-Blowers Policy.
Ike Ekweremadu and his wife have been convicted in the United Kingdom for trafficking a young man into the UK to harvest his kidney.
He died after a brief illness.
He said many state governors “are yet to implement the appropriate CONMESS structure, domesticate the Medical Residency Training Act (MRTA) or improve on the hazard allowance paid to NARD members.”
He said: “She is an iron lady, I don’t think I have the courage to write such a book.
PREMIUM TIMES visited Oron five days after the Senate’s resolution.
The act of serious, progressive and purposeful governance must immediately commence and continue pending legal battles.
He called on voters in Adamawa and Kebbi to ensure that they conducted themselves peacefully during and after the elections.
He remarked that Nigeria’s foreign exchange crisis in 2022 caused a shortage of dollars and euros for a business where “roughly 50 per cent of our input costs is imported.”
“Several political conferences have recommended the creation of additional state in the South-east to bring the number of states to six.
A staffer at the office of the Head of Service said “Only half of the workers in the most important ministries” were paid for February.
He said separation of power, did not mean being confrontational, adding that as the Speaker of the 10th House of Representatives, “I will not compromise the independence of legislature”.
For the current 9th House, the South-west produced the speaker while the North-central produced the deputy speaker.
He called on the police, the State Security Service (SSS) and anti-graft agencies to quickly apprehend and question the party’s ex-officials involved in the letter before they succeeded in igniting the nation.
He said that arrangements had also been put in place to evacuate the Nigerians, who fled Sudan to the Ethiopian and Saudi-Arabian borders, back to the country.
The media will report, the media will investigate but it is the responsibility of the citizens to hold their government officials more accountable as much as possible,” he noted.
“If you go to section 45(1) of the Constitution, it actually allows you to deviate from your fundamental human rights under certain conditions.
10th NASS Leadership: Lawmakers reject zoning formula proposed by APC governors
According to the BBC, the Coronation drew a small group of protesters from the Republic, the group campaigning for the abolition of the monarchy.
The members-elect, drawn from the seven minority parties, said they would use their numerical strength to elect the speaker and deputy speaker of the House.
“We also call on all present and former government appointees, civil servants, individuals and institutions who may have been part of this theft to, please, voluntarily return whatever they have in their possession that belongs to the people and government of Abia State,” the governor-elect added.
PT: I asked about inspiration because it is a tough battle—coping with zoning, and dollarization of the process.
Mr Buhari said the trooping and presentation of colours parade was significant considering the establishment and operationalisation of new units in line with the army’s increasing operational commitments.
Before the proceedings of that day, she was to have affirmed the jurisdiction of the court to hear the case.
The Inter-Party Advisory Council (IPAC) has urged the All Progressives Congress (APC) to zone the Senate Presidency of the 10th National Assembly to either the South-east or South-south.
NAN reports that Mr Njoku was later released at the police station after Mr Rinamsomte withdrew the case.
I was able to weather the Labour (Party) storm.
“This constitutes a gross violation of the Vienna Convention.
“Around 11 a.m., I asked the security man and he told me that they (candidates) are about to start.
“During his earthly sojourn, Prince Ajibola didn’t just serve his country with his gift of extraordinary brilliance as a lawyer, he served the world as a Judge of the International Court of Justice in Hague and Member of its Permanent Court of Arbitration (PCA).
The Nigerian government argues that this unexplained access to sensitive government documents is one of many signs that the company was bribing Nigerian officials and lawyers to covertly work on its behalf during the arbitration.
“The Madubi is a national campaign we want to advocate for the outside society on the importance of girl-child education that is why we are adopting this, and it means a mirror of a child” she said.
Mr Tinubu’s spokespersons were yet to comment on the meeting at the time of this report.
“Pursuant to Section 58, sub section 2 of the 1999 Constitution as amended, I forward herewith the Nigerian Data Protection Bill for consideration and approval of by the Senate,’’ the letter read.
I am a person who does not take a position lightly I very much admired Peter Obi and respect him and there are many other people whom I respect and admired but I will never vote for them to be president because I just don’t think that they will be good President.
The president prays that the Almighty God will grant Mr Adeleke the strength, wisdom and courage to serve his people and the nation.
Mr Sulaiman also lauded President Buhari for setting high standards for probity and accountability and for service to the nation and its people with morality and integrity.
The ruling All Progressive Congress (APC) is enmeshed in a fresh crisis sparked by alleged lack of financial transparency by the Chairman of the party, Abdulahi Adamu, a letter obtained by PREMIUM TIMES revealed.
UPDATED: Supreme Court affirms Adeleke’s election as Osun governor, seals Oyetola, APC’s defeat
Ifeoluwa Adewale Olowoporoku (Triple 44 Academy)
And there are 44 registered areas.
UPDATED: First batch of Nigerian evacuees from Sudan arrive Abuja
The business combination involving the two lenders is to be delivered this year, well over a year after the deal of relatively new Titan Trust acquiring Union Bank was announced.
“The town is known to be one of the peaceful and safest in the local government area so, the abduction calls for concerned.
And that brings me to the fact that you cannot bring down that trust and that expectation from your people.”
He said: “And don’t forget that we introduced measures to check some of those recoveries that we’ve made in recent times.
The Senior Personal Assistant to the General Overseer of the RCCG, Leke Adeboye, stated that the foundation’s objective was to improve the lives of individuals, contribute to the nation’s growth, and support the advancement of God’s kingdom, which is now aligned with Nigeria’s vision.
Ken Nnamani denies rumour of stroke, speaks on wife’s death
House Speakership: Lawmakers from APC, PDP, LP, NNPP, others form coalition
• Joel Onowakpo Ewomazino – Delta South
EFCC had filed an ex parte application seeking a temporary order of forfeiture of 14 properties associated with the governor.
Ms Audu said: “This is a great opportunity for me and other women to learn how to make different types of snacks, cooking, soap making and others.”
Mr Ikpeazu, reacting to the allegation of non-payment of workers’ salaries, explained that the recent freezing of the state government’s account due to a court order affected payment of the salaries.
Read PREMIUM TIMES’ earlier exclusive report on the ICRC’s financial crisis here.
The Afrobeats superstar performed songs from his album and other songs from his extensive hits collection.
However, the development grounded many flights coming in and out of Abuja for several hours, PREMIUM TIMES gathered.
“We need to see ourselves as one and love each other.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the court had directed that a notice of hearing be served on all the respondents for them to appear on April 27 for the hearing.
According to a statement by the spokesperson of the bureau, Amina Tukur, it will collaborate with accredited labour unions of the defunct PHCN, including the National Union of Electricity Employees (NUEE) and Senior Staff Association of Electricity and Allied Companies (SSAEAC) to commence the verification exercise.
He assured that these developmental strides would be sustained and improved upon through inclusive governance, if elected in the upcoming polls.
The president’s request was contained in a letter read by Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, at the plenary session on Tuesday.
“This continuing delay is heightening tension in Adamawa State and is capable of triggering a serious breakdown of Law and Order in the State, which is already overstretched as a result of the many perverse activities of the heavily compromised Adamawa State Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), Mallam Hudu Yunusa Ari.
That is why Jesus whipped the traders out of the temple (Mt.21:12).
“It is beyond time that the Nigerian authorities took meaningful action to counter armed groups like Boko Haram and gunmen.
According to Mr Suraju, this has raised concerns about the commission’s ability to tackle corruption in the civil service, stressing that ghost workers in the Federal Civil Service have been a major concern for the government, as it negatively affects revenue capacity.
She said the command would also not relent in ensuring the rescue of any residents held hostage by criminals as well as bring the perpetrators to book.
“Achieving this goal will drive significant energy security, food security, health and several other development gains.
Interestingly, Dr Afolabi who conceptualised the book mentioned in this article is the current Africa Director of HD, whereas he was Nigeria Director of HD when the idea of the book took root.
I’ll not marginalise any part of Nigeria – Tinubu
“The future of Nigeria is big, but there are more to work on in order to optimise success,” he noted.
How fraudulent bank account was set up
The result from Rumuorluoji Open Space II polling unit in Oro-Igwe Ward, for instance, showed that the APC originally scored 17 but the number, ‘2’ was added to the figure to read ‘217.’
According to the Last Great Ape Organisation (LAGA), wildlife crimes in Cameroon have increased in intensity and sophistication since the early 2000s and now include international illicit trade dimensions.
“We are confident that Mr Olasupo’s contributions will enrich the discussions and inspire young people to become more actively involved in shaping the future of our world.
“Never have your phone or other electronic camera devices pointed at you while undressing or in a position, you would not want to share with the world.
The police spokesperson said the police operatives were conducting a stop and search operation at Afor Nnobi Road at 7:50 p.m. on the same Thursday, when the gunmen attempted to pass the road.
We did this by soliciting and obtaining the support of other arms and levels of Government with PEBEC representatives from the National Assembly and the Judiciary, as well as all sub-national governments through the National Economic Council (NEC).”
“As of July 2022, a total of 874 bills were introduced in the Senate, out of which 162 were passed.
The candidate who came fourth, Rabiu Kwankwaso of the New Nigerian Peoples Party (NNPP) recorded 1,496,687 votes, the majority of which he got from Kano State, his political stronghold in the North.
There are speculations that he was considering a switch to another opposition party in Imo State ahead of the 11 November governorship election in the state.
Mr Saidu added that the coalition must have made the endorsement out of ignorance.
“I believe these cheques will help in ensuring and providing you with some level of comfort.
“The following should be understood but never underestimated.
Like Gaya, he went to Twitter to call out the bank only to fall for the bait of a suspected internet fraudster posing as a UBA agent.
A total of 2,660 polling units across 185 local governments are affected.
Anything short of this will not be accepted by our Party and the people of Adamawa State.”
“Our men are there now and calm has returned to the town,” she said.
Globally, as of 26 April, the WHO dashboard shows there have been 764,474,387 confirmed cases of COVID-19.
“Other items recovered include two grinding machines, one vulcanizing machine, one mechanic tool box, tyre rims, three pairs of Boko Haram uniforms, shovel, bags of assorted food stuff, cartons of spaghetti, medical supplies, solar panels, 12 motorcycles, 13 bicycles, mobile phones, boafeng radio, pouches, one vehicle and the sum of N2.3 million cash.
her vagina, that he wants to wash it.
Meanwhile, the police spokesperson in the state, Irene Ugbo, has confirmed the incident and decried the act.
His campaign slogan, “It’s my turn,” was a nod to his role as a longtime political power broker.
Court stops PDP from suspending, expelling Rivers governor-elect, others loyal to Wike
Ajay Banga selected 14th President of World Bank
The Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice will now domicile and gazette these changes that have been approved, the statement said.
FEC approves Nigerian citizenship to 385 applicants
Detailed statement to follow shortly,” Mr Okoye said.
For instance, section 839 of CAMA 2020 gives the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC), wide latitude, and enormous powers to remove trustees of associations and appoint an interim manager if they mismanage an association.
He added that lack of assistance increased the risk of youth recruitment into armed groups and displaced populations that returned to inaccessible areas, where they were beyond the reach of humanitarian assistance and other social services.
Many are of the opinion that the ruling party should zone the Senate presidency to the South and ensure that it must be a Christian candidate.
An Aiyetoro High Court in Ogun State, for instance, sentenced a man, Adelake Bara, to death by hanging in June 2022, for shooting and killing one Olaleye Oke.
“Following years of planning and consideration of various funding and operating models, DHQ began establishing the secure nationwide communication network code named Giwa 2 Project infrastructure in May 2021.”
CDD will release a statement on the conduct of the elections later today,” CDD said in a statement on its Twitter handle.
According to the statement, the minister said this while inaugurating a 20-bed COVID-19 Crisis Intervention Fund Hospital and Equipment at the Maximum Security Custodial Centre, Port Harcourt.
We pursued him to a village where he finally stopped.
The director said that AEPB simply went to court to obtain the court order to seal the market for their non-compliance attitude.
WhatsApp users to use account on multiple phones – Zuckerberg
“To reverse these trends and accelerate progress, we must rethink and revitalise our strategies by investing, innovating and implementing smartly”.
“While he was about to leave, I said he could not leave.
This is similarly replicated in the House, where 62 of 327 declared representatives are also not members of the established two parties.
Operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) have seized 126 parcels of Canadian Loud, a synthetic strain of cannabis at the Tincan port in Lagos.
She explained that the notion is a "bad work culture" in both public and private organisations.
Here is wishing Baba Koleoso a happy 85th birthday.
“My mandate was to follow democratic principles, ensure that it is constitutional, legitimate, morally supported and legally binding.
Mr Matawalle will cease to be governor on 29 May having lost his re-election bid.
Also speaking, the Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, disclosed that the 137kms Kano to Zaria and 73 kms Zaria to Kaduna expressways, as well as the second Niger bridge projects would be handed over to the federal government on 15 May for inauguration.
On monetary reforms, the think tank said the government should enhance the coordination of fiscal and monetary policy to reduce frictions and counteractive policy goals.
As he has often quoted Psalm 34:19, “Many are the afflictions of the righteous, but the LORD delivers him out of them all.” The Governor stands for justice, equity and fairness and no amount of blackmail and impunity as orchestrated by the Buhari administration can make him to change his advocacy against injustice and oppression.
“Our perspectives have provided the incoming government with the tools to guide Nigerians’ energy future.
He was together with Liz Benson.
It is therefore strange, unjust and inconceivable to profile the Igbo and their assets for destruction because they exercised their franchise in favour of the Yoruba candidates,” it said.
PDP’s Atiku came second with 941,941 votes (21 per cent) and won in one state while Mr Obi finished third in the South-west, gaining 19.5 per cent of the votes and winning in one state.
More to come in due course.
Bola Ajibola's family said: “With very deep heart and gratitude to Almighty Allah, Our Dad, Prince Bola Ajibola, departed this world over midnight.
Mr Gagdi also promised to democratise the activities of the House by “ensuring that the disenfranchised voices in our country are given an audience on the chamber floor and representation in the halls of the legislature.
It maintained that the Monday sit-at-home remains suspended and described those behind the civil action as “criminals” attempting to blackmail the secessionist group.
After the shots were fired on Saturday night, three men who had been posing as journalists quickly surrendered and were taken into custody.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999
Read the letter in full
The payment has, however, threatened the nation’s fiscal position and impacted the government’s ability to fund developmental projects across the nation.
“While urging for support across boards, I condemn the attack in its entirety and call for calm and no one should take the law into their hands.
An angry mob, on Monday, stoned a 35-year-old man to death for allegedly killing two persons and injuring six others in an accident at Ijoka road, Akure, Ondo State capital.
It said the engagement brought to their knowledge the dangers of erecting houses on pipelines, waterways and the airport’s perimeter fence, blocking access for security patrols.
Apart from Mr Akpabio, a former governor of Abia State, Orji Uzor Kalu, and Abdulaziz Yari, former Zamfara gov, have also declared their interest to be senate president once the 10th Senate is proclaimed into existence.
“Marie-Laure is a seasoned and respected professional and business leader.
This was contained in a statement on Monday in Enugu and issued by the head of the Peter Mbah Media Office, Dan Nwomeh.
I’m not aware of Akpabio’s nomination for senate presidency – Yari
“As a noble institution, OPSH is neutral and would not compromise its constitutional roles under any guise.
Mr Soludo stated this on Monday while addressing the state workers during the 2023 May Day celebration held at the Alex Ekwueme Square, Awka, according to a report by the Punch.
He was previously on the Boards of the American Red Cross, Kraft Foods, and Dow Inc.
When in 2019 you declared constitutional amendment as your priority in your legislative agenda, Nigerians believed you had a plan against a possible presidential veto.
We will not allow Nigeria to be bought.
“The March Cadre Harmonise projects that 4.3 million people in Borno, Adamawa, and Yobe states face severe hunger during the peak of the lean season between June and August 2023.
“We are the people who know Akpabio because we are residents in the South, we know those who are friendly with the Northern people and Akpabio is actually not one of them, ” he said.
Responding, Mr Ayade expressed appreciation to the APC governors for zoning the senate president to his geopolitical region.
“While I await your kind acceptance of my declaration of intention, sir, please, accept the assurances of my esteemed regards,” the letter reads.
The excitement of the playoffs begins when the teams start competing for the 16th and final playoff spot.
“However, on Jan. 27, Njoku, who was never a party to any of the suits and the processes filed in the various courts approached the Supreme Court of Nigeria as an interested person/applicant.
Assault: Seun Kuti spends night in police custody
The police commissioner urged the beneficiaries to “use the money wisely by investing in a profitable venture” to be able to provide for the people left behind by the slain officers.
Jeremiah Oluwaseyi Olaleke (Ablaze Football Academy)
He thanked the Chief of Army Staff, Farouk Yahaya, for his guidance and support to the Centre which enabled the successful completion of the pre-deployment training.
“They debated and agreed what this organisation would be and do in a document called the Constitution of the World Health Organisation,” Ghebreyesus said.
He pointed out that the trial judge recognised that there was evidence during the trial of assault or general abusive behaviour involving other children in the family but did not count it as an aggravating factor against the offender.
“As I travelled to the village for burial yesterday, 11th of April, by 1:15 a.m. this morning, 12th of April, my daughter called me.
When contacted on Wednesday, the police spokesperson in Imo State, Henry Okoye, confirmed the killing of the police inspector to PREMIUM TIMES.
In what appeared to be fresh accusations, the police commissioner said the corps member also hacked into a bank account of a man and transferred millions of naira to his (Emeh) different bank accounts.
The country’s military leader, Abdel Fattah al-Burhan, disputed the former’s claim, saying the military continues to maintain control over government sites.
The APC candidate a serving lawmaker came third in the election
On Wednesday, the Head, Obi-Datti Media, Diran Onifade, in a statement announced that the LP candidate was last week detained in London by UK immigration officials over alleged impersonation.
Mr Onifade accused the government of bugging Mr Obi’s phone while possibly looking for information to portray him badly before a section of the country who had voted for him massively.
Twenty people killed in Taraba communal clash
10th NASS: Akande-Sadipe declares ambition for Deputy Speaker
Despite the rejection of the outcome of the poll by Messrs Obi, Atiku and some other parties, several countries including the US have congratulated Mr Tinubu for his victory.
Two dead, 12 injured in Kogi lone accident road – FRSC
He said the election was cancelled in all 17 polling units because of the snatching of electoral materials, including Bimodal Voters Accreditation System (BVAS) machines.
Iran’s foreign ministry said the high voter turnout in the Turkey elections is a sign that the rule of democracy has prevailed in the neighbouring Muslim nation.
The Speaker described Mr Ogundare as a competent police officer who had acquired experience and excelled across Nigeria, urging him to bring his experience to bear on his new assignment in Ekiti.
The trio are also charged with conspiracy to sexually exploit minors by causing them to produce child pornographic images that they used to blackmail them.
“The kidnappers were intercepted along Ndofia Ishieke and Edupfu Egbu Ishieke in Ebonyi Local Government Area, where they abandoned the victim and took to their heels while exchanging gunshots with the Police to pave (the) way for their escape.
PREMIUM TIMES, which has been following the case, observed that the arrest of the suspects, their arraignment at the court, and their movement to the prison had happened in less than 24 hours.
“Daily, the evil intention of the breakaway faction of the Labour Party, led by the suspended deputy national chairman, Mr Apapa continues to manifest.
The lawmaker, who donned a black cap with the Bola Tinubu insignia, declared “Emi Lokan”, a Yoruba phrase that translates to “It is my turn”.
The information available reveals that they are still threatening the lives of the Igbo and their properties in Lagos State,” the elders stated.
She rejected all four invitations.
If you are asking for a different government not known to law, it is a treasonable felony.
However, the tool is being used by disinformants to create fake narratives.
The CG has vowed to discipline officers who go out of their way to try to either engage or sabotage the reform process.
The ruling party had in March met to discuss the zoning of the office, however, no decision was made on zoning.
That was how the officers arrested him (Asadu) too.
According to the VP, some of these challenges included removing bottlenecks and obstacles, while delivering the reorientation of regulatory authorities and civil servants who deal with businesses on a daily basis; as well as the significant trust deficit from the private sector towards the government, and correcting the pervading negative perceptions, by ensuring that our policies and regulations are enablers to Micro, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (MSMEs).
This was contained in a statement by Abdur-Rahman Balogun, head of Media, Public Relations and Protocols, NiDCOM on Saturday.
He trades in the same market as the complainant’s family.
When all drum beaters mocked us to buy the bunch
“So I can confidently confirm that any candidate that visits JAMB offices from Monday will be attended to, though it ought to have closed on Saturday.
Mr Labbo said The National Hajj Commission has appointed Azman Air to airlift the state’s intending pilgrims to the holy land.
“Effort towards combating illicit trade in endangered species is to ensure that such animals don’t go into extinction.
The couple visited several police stations after they learnt that some officers raided the community on the same day.
The APC won 162, the PDP 102 and the LP 34.
The youth leader for the APC North-west, Abdulalmid Umar, who spoke on behalf of the group, said the zone produced the highest number of votes for the APC during the 25 February presidential polls.
“I came to the Senate in 2007, I was in the House of Representatives, I’ve been in the party for five good, solid years.
The Comptroller-General of NIS, Idris Jere, disclosed this on Tuesday while appearing before an ad hoc committee of the House of Representatives investigating the production of passport booklets in Nigeria.
One of Nigeria’s popular thespians and skit makers, Samuel Perry, with stage name Broda Shaggy, recently returned to his alma mater- the University of Lagos (UNILAG)- to support the institution’s effort towards showcasing the creative work of its students.
But he denied the allegations that he threatened the prosecutor.
The court stood down its proceedings till 10:30 a.m.
World Earth Day is an annual event celebrated on April 22 to demonstrate support for environmental protection.
11:00am: Court discountenances Mr Umuebe’s appearance because he didn’t file any petition on behalf of the AA party.
The statement noted that the agency’s chairman/chief executive officer, Buba Marwa a retired brigadier general, has commended the officers and men of the MMIA, Edo, Ogun, Lagos, Katsina, Kaduna and Ondo Commands for the arrests and seizures of the past week.
Nigerians are looking up to you to reclaim their trust in you as the interpreters of the spirit of our laws.
The Belissima Bàbá Bella joyeux soix ante dixième anniversaire milliar daire
Many state governors spoke glowingly of Mr Osinbajo's leadership of NEC for the past eight years.
The Presiding Officer of Unit 1, Jesse Kio, said voting commenced in the unit by 8:30 a.m. but only few persons had voted.
Mr Tinubu is scheduled to return shortly for preparations towards his official swearing-in as the 16th president of the country on 29 May.
“I wrote a letter to INEC.
Later at the media briefing on the outcome of Thursday’s NEC, Governors Bala Mohammed and Hope Uzodinma of Bauchi and Imo states respectively, again lauded the VP in glowing terms.
Consequently, as we earlier reported, the organisation started considering “hard and painful” activities of cutting activities, threatening delivery assistance to people in emergencies across the world, including Nigeria.
Mr Alabi, who represents Egbeda/Ona-Ara federal constituency of Oyo State, said lobby and campaigning by different candidates are ongoing in the two chambers, however, no one has offered any lawmaker money to vote in any particular direction.
The suspended Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) for Adamawa State, Hudu Ari, is now in the custody of the police, the force spokesperson, Muyiwa Adejobi, said Tuesday.
He acknowledged that the federal parliament has yet to meet the expectations of Nigeria after 24 years of uninterrupted democracy.
In Benue alone, the governor said two million people who have been displaced and are living in Internally Displaced People’s (IDP) camps.
He prayed God to grant the deceased a peaceful rest and the family the fortitude to bear the loss.
He pleaded not guilty to the charges when they were read to him.
The Chairman of the PDP Governors’ Forum and Governor of Sokoto State, Aminu Tambuwal, who issued the statement on behalf of PDP governors, commended Mr Adeleke for his good works in the state.
• Bassey Aniekan Etim Akwa Ibom N/ East
A former Minister of Labour and Productivity, Musa Gwadabe, is dead.
Mr Finitiri and his deputy governor-elect have also been presented with certificates of return by INEC.
The judge also set aside every decision taken by the board that was appointed after Mr Ararume’s removal.
A statement by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), on Monday, listed the defendants as Samson Ogoshi, his brother, Samuel, and Ezekiel Ejemeh Robert.
Atiku Abubakar, the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), had said President-elect Bola Tinubu has dual citizenship of Nigeria and Guinea.
Enwongo Cleopas-Akwa was there at the airport reception for the birds, while her husband was said to be on duty outside of Akwa Ibom.
Counsel for the first respondent, Idris Yakubu, filed a brief argument dated 25 April, and urged the court to dismiss the suit.
Court dismisses another petition challenging Tinubu’s victory
The Minister of Labour and Employment, Chris Ngige, has described as “absurd” the demands by medical doctors under the aegis of the Nigerian Association of Resident Doctors (NARD).
Following glitches recorded across many centres during the mock examination, JAMB rescheduled the test for affected candidates, which was held on 18 April.
Alhassan Doguwa, one of the aspirants for the speakership of the House of Representatives, has dropped out of the race and endorsed Tajudeen Abbas, the preferred candidate of the President-elect, Bola Tinubu.
He said this on Wednesday in Abuja while speaking with journalists at the end of a four hours closed-door meeting of the party’s National Working Committee (NWC) in Abuja.
Ruling on Mr Oyetola’s allegation of forgery levelled against Mr Adeleke, the Supreme Court held that Mr Oyetola and APC did not substantiate their claims.
The Grammy-nominated saxophonist had on Monday surrendered himself to the police in Lagos after a video surfaced showing him assaulting a police officer.
On his part, Woodberry delayed his guilty plea for over two years, as he only turned around to plead guilty earlier this April.
Nobel laureate, Wole Soyinka, has said the word “reconciliation” was never used during the visit of Peter Obi, the Labour Party presidential candidate, to his home on Sunday.
Also, a 22-year-old HND 1 female student of Federal Polytechnic, Ilaro, Ogun State, Isoyo Iveren Susan was on Saturday arrested opposite the 2nd Gate of the institution for dealing in illicit drugs.
She said appropriate legal processes had been followed as the matter had been ongoing since 2016, adding that proper notices were served on the victims.
You will either rise together or fall alone."
The NBS said the revenue collected in the fourth quarter of 2022 rose by 16.02 per cent from N200.23 billion in Q4 2021.
A man identified as Onyema Kalu, a student at the Federal University of Technology Owerri, was also arrested for filming the assault incident.
A security guard at Greater Scholars International School– a private nursery and primary school in Lagos, identified simply as David, has been accused of defiling a four-year-old pupil of the school.
Tinubu greets Adebanjo on 95th birthday
After Oliver Giroud rounded off Goalkeeper Andre Onana, Brahim Diaz failed to slot the loose ball into an empty net.
Mr Echeng thanked the IGP for his “relentless efforts towards ensuring a good welfare package for personnel of the Nigeria Police Force,” Mr Ikenga said.
Enugu community protests govt’s planned demolition of houses
“It is with a deep sense of joy and humility that I bring you warm greetings and that of Abia North Senatorial zone.
While he was being held in Cairo, the State Security Service (SSS) raided his Kaduna residence and office.
While the leadership positions in the National Assembly are by convention supposed to be decided by the lawmakers, the party with the majority number of seats has a role, as regards zoning and balance of power.
He noted that as a beneficiary of the zoning arrangement in 2019, he will not do anything to undermine the party.
*One (1) Rolls Royce Cullinan, vehicle number J9153
The sides are at odds over the process of restoring civilian rule.
Mr Obi made his stance known in a series of tweets Wednesday night.
“What I said was that, during the election, there was a technical glitch and as a result of this and for INEC to protect the data, it suspended uploading of the results.
The commission said in a statement that the forfeited assets comprised seven in Abuja and one in Bayelsa State, as well as 30, 000 MTN shares (MTN Link Units).
While speaking at a media briefing in Abuja, the Executive Director of the National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA), Faisal Shuaib, said there is an unequal distribution of available SBAs among the PHC facilities in the country.
Wike and his co-travellers.”
The cost of preparing a pot of jollof rice, a popular delicacy among Nigerians, rose from N9,917 to N10,882 from September 2022 to March 2023, a report has said.
The plaintiffs are also arguing that “The media plays an essential role as a vehicle or instrument for the exercise of freedom of expression and access to information in a democratic society.”
It noted that debt levels remain high, limiting the ability of fiscal policymakers to respond to new challenges.
Mr Gbajabiamila prayed for the repose of the soul of the late writer, author and publisher.
We are talking about inclusivity,” he said.
Five persons were on Tuesday arraigned in an Akure Magistrate Court over the lynching of a 25-year-old man, Temitope Olorunfemi.
Abduction for ransom is now one of the dominant crimes across various Nigerian cities.
In that he succeeded.
“I remain steadfast in my assertion that I
Mr Shehu itemised measures taken by Mr Buhari to address wanton killings in the state.
The forces, who had over the years, lived off the old order, are bound to fight back, as is being experienced now.
However, the army said on its Facebook page “Our forces have repulsed an attempted attack by the RSF to take control of Al-Kadaro camp and inflicted heavy losses on the enemy.”
• Nwebonyi Onyeka Peter – Ebonyi North
He said: “We will continue to prioritise the payment of workers salaries and emoluments in addition to improving their welfare generally.
Meanwhile, the Sector Commander of the FRSC in Ogun, Ahmed Umar, sympathised with the families of the victims and appealled to motorists to always obey traffic rules.
Governor Wike said the PDP would be doomed if it gives the governorship ticket of Mr Melaye and vowed not to campaign for PDP if that happens.
While in Nigeria, he met a lady the court called Mary and started a relationship with her.
Anger is a legitimate emotion and it possesses some curative and even redemptive uses.
PREMIUM TIMES has reported that the Oxford team in collaboration with the Serum Institute of India will produce up to 200 million doses annually with a vaccine factory being constructed in Accra, Ghana.
Mr Tinubu left Nigeria on 21 March.
Election participation in Benue and Ogun states was 29 per cent each.
This, he said, was to ensure adequate preparation, publicity and adequate funding for the commission.
“The financier declined to finance the project, so the CCEC Nigeria Ltd., in collaboration with the Federal Ministry of Transportation had to look for a contractor to finance the segment of the rolling plan.’’
The only problem is the experience of 1999 – 2003, which highlighted problems of instability with the South-East holding the position of Senate President.
RE: CHIMAMANDA’S SEDITIOUS OPEN LETTER TO PRESIDENT JOE BIDEN – A CASE OF EXTRATERRITORIAL ETHNOCENTRIC POLITICKING OF A NON-RESIDENT NIGERIAN-AMERICAN
But the federal government’s lawyer, Tijani Gadzali, a SAN, objected to the position, asking for time to file a response to Mr Ozekhome’s reply brief.
The Chairman of the governors’ forum, Aminu Tambuwal, of Sokoto State, said since the formation of the forum in 2014, it had become an alternative voice in the governance of the country, which could not be ignored.
I was disqualified on two accounts.
Volt Candy is voluntarily recalling the one lot of PrimeZen Black 6000mg capsule alongside its 2000mg due to undeclared ingredients they were made of by their manufacturer in America.
The defence spokesperson said the air component conducted several air interdiction operations on terrorists enclaves and logistics, neutralizing several terrorists and destroying their structures and logistics.
Mr Barde appealed to residents of the state to support the police and other security agencies in the fight against crime and to report to the police “any suspicious activity or person” seen with or treating gunshot injury.
Smallpox, which claimed an estimated 300 million lives in the 20th century alone, has been eradicated.
He urged the INEC Chairman, Mahmood Yakubu, to direct the Returning Officer, Mohammed Mele, to immediately conclude collation, declare the final results and return Mr Fintiri as the duly elected Governor of Adamawa State.
The British should look into the sentencing, it should not be too harsh,” he said.
The senior lawyer said they were forced to serve the further affidavit on Tuesday because the SSS served them on Friday.
“In almost about 90 positions of this country, the men have dominated it.
I love my wife very well; I begged her to come back home but she never did for the past three years.
Remember, before I am stepping in there as a governor, our history reveals that we have all cultures in Benue and so it is, we have all cultures in Nigeria in Benue.
The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has said the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Tinubu, did not have to score 25 votes cast in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) before being declared Nigeria’s president-elect.
The charges include false pretence and money laundering to the tune of $769,263.
Ibrahim Idris, (APC) Senator-elect, Zamfara Central Senatorial District, said though there were challenges, he appreciated God and his people for the victory.
The social media gradually became the conveyor belt for the diffusion and distribution of hate.
The commission has deployed all sensitive materials to all the constituencies where supplementary elections have been indicated.”
Although he did not elaborate on how the funding is done by Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs), the lawmaker, who chairs the committee on Navy, said it is an aberration of democratic practice and against the principle of the 1999 constitution.
The Northwest used to be the heartbeat of the ruling party.
The magistrate adjourned the case till 23 May for mention.
Around the world, the election is being celebrated because of the turbulence in the region and the developing world, all courtesy of your leadership.
A media report had quoted an officer as saying that some police officers gave $10,000 bribe to get special promotion from the PSC.
“The union is challenging Lagos State since union matters are under the federal ministry,” he said.
“Due to our location in the desert with scarcity of natural resources and water, Israel is a living laboratory for developing practical, earth saving solutions that are also incredibly relevant for Nigeria.
In the House of Representatives, ranking APC lawmakers like Deputy Speaker Idris Wase and House Leader Alhassan Doguwa have also rejected the zoning arrangement and have vowed to continue with their ambition to be the speaker.
So Mr. President is completely wrong.
Ms Asadu, consequently, took a motorcycle to bring her brother’s classmate, unaware that the boy was with a team of police officers in the area.
In his remarks, FAAN’s Managing Director, Rabiu Yadudu, explained that the agency’s primary aim of creating and institutionalising the conference is to provide a unified platform for all industry stakeholders to come together, with a view to discussing challenges within the sector and providing viable solutions.
“Rooted political parties and interests were dislodged in places where such had proved impossible for two decades.
Mr Sule made the announcement while addressing workers on the occasion of the 2023 Workers Day celebration on Monday in Lafia, the state capital.
The petition says the Labour Party candidate won the Edo State constituency election convincingly at the end of the first round, which he said was unjustifiably declared inconclusive.
AIICO appears in the pick for currently trading below its intrinsic value, brightening its chances of good price appreciation in the future.
But the electoral umpire had, on April 19, declared the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)’s candidate and Governor Ahmadu Fintiri the winner of the governorship election held in the state.
He advised it to respect the principle of separation of power.
I commend you for the fact that you have known that none of this was done out of malice but that we want the best for our country.
SERAP stated that Mr Buhari, whose administration will end on 29 May, must use the opportunity to reaffirm his commitment to fighting corruption, and also set the tone for the incoming administration.
In striking down the provisions, the judge said, “every citizen of Nigeria is guaranteed the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion, and any law which threatens these rights will be struck down.
Mr Buhari said he looked forward to retirement in Daura, Katsina State, after handing over on 29 May, reiterating: “I’ll be as far away from Abuja as possible.”
But he and the victim resided in Ogidi, a community in Idemili North Local Government Area of Anambra State.
An INEC official, who spoke in anonymity, told NAN that accreditation was going smoothly but expressed concerns about the apathy among voters.
A statement by the EFCC’s spokesperson, Wilson Uwujaren, said the judge erred on different grounds.
That will validate the negative narrative of the Islamization of Nigeria.
Widespread reports by firms indicated that customers were unable to commit to spending in the face of the cash crunch
Ms Onabanjo said this also reflects the urgent need to scale up access to quality sexual and reproductive health services as part of universal health coverage and primary health care, especially in communities where maternal mortality rates have stagnated or even risen during recent years.
Mr Danmadami, a major general, said the troops also apprehended no fewer than 122 terrorists, bandits, their collaborators and other criminals across the zones within the period.
He said the isolation of Sudan as a country from the outside world with loose financial operations made it difficult to move funds easily for emergencies.
The various money laundering offences alleged by the EFCC involved transfer and taking possession of a total of N1,840,000,000 which it described as proceeds of unlawful acts.
The members-elect will later visit the South-west and South-south zone.
He said the government would prevail on the federal government to take over the airport, which he said had created over 500 jobs, and concession it.
“The operatives engaged the assailants (and) neutralised five of the gang members,” he said.
Ms Onuoha, who represents Okigwe North Federal Constituency in Imo State, made the declaration Wednesday in Abuja.
People who are mischievous move about to be writing what they want.
But before his death, he had written his name in gold on the sand of time especially in the law profession.
The defendants were re-arraigned by the EFCC in 2018.
10th Assembly: Yari urges senators-elect to disregard religion, ethnicity in election of senate president
He however used the opportunity to indicate the support his administration for women assuring Nigerians that his tenure will be gender friendly.
“In view of the above, we wish to respectfully appeal to all other aspirants to these key positions to kindly support our position by withdrawing their respective bids.
The commander said the EFCC had also adopted measures that would make it difficult for any person or group to tamper with the results of the elections.
Responding to the disparaging responses, Mr Soyinka through a statement titled, ‘Fascism on course’ said the “seeds of incipient fascism in the political arena have evidently matured.”
The Head, Press and Public Relations of the Commission, Ikechukwu Ani, said this in a statement on Sunday in Abuja.
The facility is named “King Abdullah Bin Hussein II Auditorium.”
‘Molestation’: Lagos CP removes DPO over negligence
In a statement obtained by PREMIUM TIMES on Thursday, the CSOs said without effectively implementing the Act, its purpose will be defeated.
But even when the titles were not coming, the U-17 AFCON continually served as a launchpad for future stars, with many past Eaglets graduating to Nigeria’s senior team, the Super Eagles.
The Adamawa State governorship election of 18 March was declared inconclusive by INEC.
Pope complains about unfounded accusations against John Paul II
The Police Public Relations Officer in the FCT, Josephine Adeh, said this in a statement on Sunday in Abuja.
Three re-elected governors, expected at the event were: Bala Mohammed of Bauchi State, Seyi Makinde of Oyo State, and Ahmadu Fintiri of Adamawa.
The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), which instituted the case against the governor’s properties, said it has appealed against the judgement.
In its message to the world, the vaccine maker said there is heightened concern and apprehension around the status of vaccination programmes around the world, and that it is not time to drop the ball.
He explained that the board is adopting new initiatives in this year’s DE registration to curb the use of fake A-level results by candidates, a situation he said is rampant.
It was indeed a crowning moment when YBNL artist Asake rushed on stage to join Davido who was performing ‘No Competition’ from the Timeless album.
Nigeria has descended into the abyss in education and very many other spheres but in that descent, it is still far more of worth than many of the universities of the world that our children run to.
“I must also use this opportunity to enjoin my All Progressives Congress members and the teeming supporters in the areas listed for the polls to come out in their large numbers to cast their votes for the party’s candidates.
President-elect Bola Tinubu has returned to Nigeria after a four-week vacation in France.
The 2023 theme is “Accelerating the Recovery from the Coronavirus Disease (COVID-19) and the Full Implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development at Levels”.
Global powers clearly need to build influence from summits, but what’s in it for Africa?
“Yemenis and Nigerians moving to the United States increase their earnings by about 15 times.
Also known by his pen name Peter Pan, Mr Enahoro was also an author, businessman and a columnist for the New African magazine.
Senators Abdulaziz Yari and Barau Jibrin have both declared their intention to run.
He said the Supreme Court never decriminalised defamation “but rather affirms its constitutionality.”
But Mr Uzoukwu said his team did not stage a walkout from the meeting.
Speaking on insect availability, Mrs Ebenebe described insects as ubiquitous, adding that they have adapted to many environments and that they have a high rate of multiplication making them available at all times except for seasonal ones.
Like I said the country has never been so divided and everybody seems to be looking after their region.
“I couldn’t leave the house because of my younger sister as I was afraid my father could do the same thing to my sister,” the victim said.
In Lagos State, there are approximately 13,500 polling units.
Wike’s ally, others form multi-partisan coalition, promise to work with APC in speakership battle
other African countries are not privileged to have.
He thanked the president of the Sahrawi Republic for the message he sent and gave an assurance that he will study its content and brief the in-coming president, Bola Tinubu, on their concerns, urging the special envoy to make the effort to brief the in-coming president as well.
Secondly, the North-West has 93 members out of 360 which is almost 26 percent of the entire members of the House of Reps; that is another factor that needs to be considered.
“I was very impressed by that because he shows me how much he valued education and then he became governor of Anambra State, he took Anambra State to number one in education and I remembered being impressed by the story of how he gave his personal phone number to all the senior prefect in secondary schools in Anambra which shows me that he is interested in how ordinary people think.
Chimamandi’s letter was against entire “Nigeria’s Democracy” that was fought and procured with patriotic bloods, labour, efforts, lives and undeterred resolve of democrats, chief among them being Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, who, by divine arrangement, is now the President-Elect of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.
Mr Anatu said no challenge had been recorded with the use of BVAS at the polling unit which had 1,382 registered voters.
The National Assembly, CAC and the Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF) were defendants in the suit.
Hope of many residents of the South-east was dashed when the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the two dominant political parties in Nigeria, picked their candidates outside the region during their separate presidential primaries in May, last year.
Mr Obi noted that he never anticipated the journey of a “New Nigeria” to be a smooth ride and that the forces, who had over the years lived off the old order, are bound to fight back, as is being experienced now.
She also ordered Mr Nnamdi to produce one surety, who must be a level 14 civil servant or a resident of the FCT with verified landed property, as part of the bail conditions.
It simply did not arise.
The programme provides opportunities for 12 journalists per year from tropical countries to report on critical environmental issues
According to the court papers obtained by the newspaper, she argued that the after the collation of results, INEC declared her the winner of the election but the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its candidate, Ahmadu Fintiri, the incumbent governor who is seeking a second term in office, violently disturbed public peace and attacked an INEC National Commissioner.
He also enjoined them to love their neighbours through acts of kindness and generosity of spirit, with the well to do sharing their substance with the less privileged around them.
“And the fifth approval for FCT is for revised estimated total cost/augmentation of the contract for the provision of access road to Kabusa Garden Estate, Dako District in FCT and this is for N6.6 billion.’’
“We have implemented outstanding promotions up to 2018 and are already working towards implementing promotions from 2018-date for deserving workers to avoid accumulation,” the governor added.
The APC, the 4th respondent, urged the PEPC to reject the petition in its notice of preliminary objection marked: CA/PEPC/A/05/2023.
And had always been persuaded that our sovereign advancement inclusive of the desired progressions of millions of Nigerians is better enabled through the instrumentality of appropriately engineered legislations which are superintended by a knowledgeable and motivated political head of the National Assembly who is equipped for thoroughness, moderation and a vision-driven compassion.
I saw somewhere that “Mrs Nnamani went to do a tummy tuck”.
In fact, optimism was among the lowest seen since the survey began in January 2014,” the report said.
Addressing reporters shortly after the plenary session, Mr Orji said that he had faced several humiliations as a speaker.
Another was lower workloads.
One of the discussants, Mope Omotosho, a registered animal scientist, said several sustainable agricultural practices are available but that the farmers are not aware of such initiatives.
“We pray that Almighty Allah grant Baba more years so he can witness the dawn of a new era where the hopes of our people for a better, stronger, more secure and more prosperous Nigeria will not only be renewed but come to full realisation.
“This means that we are looking at a bright and prosperous Niger Delta from the prism of the PPP,” Mr Abosede said, adding that the model is to provide alternative sources of funding for key projects and programmes.
In a statement on Wednesday which was posted on its official Twitter handle, the airline said the officials of the labour unions also took over their check-in counters.
WHO Country Representative in Nigeria, Walter Mulombo, made the appeal at a media roundtable to commemorate the 2023 World Malaria Day (WMD) in Abuja on Tuesday.
The Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Office of the Vice President, Laolu Akande, in a statement on Thursday, said the NPRGS Steering Committee met at the Presidential Villa, Abuja.
Mr Shuaib said CRISP aims to leverage the rural posting of resident doctors to support PHC development in partnership with Teaching Hospitals, Federal Medical Centres, State Primary Health Care Boards, Local Government Health Authorities, and communities.
Mr Victor said the panel members resolved to investigate the whereabouts of Mr Asadu at the RRS Unit Awkuzu and subsequently, asked Romanus, the suspect’s father, to put down his side of the story in writing and await the outcome of their investigation.
Shortly after the court recognised Mr Maduabuchi, the lawyer announced the withdrawal of the case.
NPF Microfinance Bank appears on the week for currently trading well below its real value, making it cheap for investment.
The first test in this respect for the president-elect is filling the National Assembly leadership positions – Senate President, Deputy Senate President, Speaker and Deputy Speaker.
The new wing, an extension of the existing medical centre, located inside the presidential villa in Asokoro, Abuja, Nigeria’s Federal Capital Territory (FCT), is said to have cost N21 billion.
Security of diplomatic premises and staff is a primary responsibility of Sudanese authorities and an obligation under international law,” he said.
“We are going to have a Special Adviser for people with special needs and our special schools so that you can stand alone and have someone in the cabinet that will be speaking for you.
If CHANNELS feels up to it, I offer myself willing to engage Mr. Datti – or any nominee of his – on its platform on this very bone of contention – one-on-one – without the malodorous intervention of media trolls, and with the same interviewer as mediator.
Mr Arase frowned at the effrontery of Kuti to have slapped the policeman, insisting that Nigeria is not a Hobbesian state where might is right.
According to Mr Malami, the policy is intended and targeted at consolidating and upscaling the Nigerian observance of the Human Rights posture in view of the successes and achievements of Nigeria as it relates to human rights under the current administration.
Offices of various aviation agencies in Lagos were shut on Tuesday as aviation sector workers embark on a warning strike,
The critics believe that it was wrong for the Imo Elders Council to have presented Mr Iwuanyanwu as the new Ohanaeze president-general to Mr Uzodinma without being ratified at the Imeobi Ohanaeze meeting.
The minister said: “This is taking into consideration that not a single incidence of death of a journalist has been recorded in Nigeria arising from infractions, relating thereto.”
At the resumed on Wednesday, lawyers to the EFCC and ICPC, Samuel Okeleke and O.
Mr Akinosi said the video on the incident making the rounds was done in bad taste, describing it as an attempt to smear his personality.
“The Nigerian Constitution provides in Section 14(1)(c) that, ‘the participation by the people in their government shall be ensured in accordance with the provisions of this Constitution.’”
The templates can be personalised by adding logos and text.
In its notice of preliminary objection, the APC questioned the competence of the petition, noting that it was based solely on pre-election issues.
Earlier, the founder of the foundation, Sharafudeen Aliagan, said the objective of the event was to find a lasting solution to the rampant effects of drug abuse in society.
“Their vision was clear, but bold: the highest possible standard of health, for all people.
It added that “roadside parking of vehicles should stop forthwith and all unauthorised vehicles parked at various positions in the university should be taken out with immediate effect, failing which university security will take appropriate action on such vehicles.”
“Subsequently on Friday, over 5,000 traders who thronged the modern market in order to trade, couldn’t gain access into their shops as the market was sealed up.
He said: “The submission of 22.7 billion dollars was in respect of five projects under the 2016-2018 external borrowing plan.
Mr Tinubu uses the property for his stay in London and photos from there became popular online when the politician was hosting political figures there while convalescing in 2021.
Dangote Sugar appears in the pick for currently trading substantially below its actual value.
He urged the “ruling party to demonstrate that it is inclusive, equitable and responsive to all parts of the country, particularly the South-east.
Woman arraigned for allegedly pushing IBEDC worker down from ladder
Furthermore, it strikes a huge ingratitude that the role of the Progressive Governors Forum appears unimportant.
Others are Tajudeen Abbas (APC, Kaduna), Aminu Jaji (APC, Zamfara), and Miriam Onuoha (APC, Imo).
Nigeria also used to occupy this vantage position but lack of acumen for futuristic planning has killed this goose that laid the golden egg.
In his filings, Mr Ekpenyong contended that Section 839 of the new CAMA confers “unilateral powers” on the CAC to “suspend the trustees of an association and appoint an interim manager” to manage the affairs of an association where the CAC “believes there is any misconduct or mismanagement in the administration of the association without a court order”.
On this ground, the government argued that the Justices of the Court of Appeal were wrong “when they relied on the alleged non-compliance” of the federal government “with the provisions of the Extradition Act in concluding that” Mr Kanu ” was unlawfully brought into Nigeria and therefore the trial court lacked jurisdiction to continue his trial.”
However, the South-east continued to struggle for a place in the topmost echelon of the party.
He cited Section 108(1) of the ACJA 2015 as a ground for the withdrawal of the charge against the defendants.
“Since then, this been has sustained, resulting in significant improvement in budget performance,” he said.
Thirdly, the petition stated that Mr Tinubu was not duly elected by majority of lawful votes cast at the Election.
Those on the record include former NBA President, J.B. Daudu, SAN, the jurist-lawyer Chief Mike Ozekhome, SAN and the former President of the West African Bar, Mr Femi Falana, SAN, among others.
He contended that the NBC Code did not provide broadcasters with any avenue or platform to be heard before the imposition of sanctions.
He said it had been observed that members of the Inspector-General (I-G) of Police Intelligence Response Team (IRT) who were loyal to Mr Kyari were still coming to court.
The deputy senate president also thanked the Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu, for demonstrating admirable patriotism and respect for positive friendship in managing the huge responsibilities of state.
It is on record that Governor Ortom has given full cooperation to all layers of security agencies working in the state to help curtail the menace of the Fulani killing squad displacing various communities in the state and other internal security skirmishes.
But Mr Uhumwago said he had won the election and the supplementary poll was baseless, urging the tribunal in Benin, the state capital, to declare him the winner and be issued the certificate of return.
FEC also approved the second phase of the electronic Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund for N15 billion.
In a similar vein, Cross River State Governor Ben Ayade commended the Vice President “for your spirit of tolerance.
APM contended that Mr Tinubu nominated Mr Masari and forwarded the latter’s name to INEC as a vice presidential candidate.
It creates a train-the-trainer team who better appreciate the importance of mainstreaming gender in the news, the organisers noted.
The NCDC added in the report that the challenges with response to Lassa fever in the country include late presentation of cases leading to an increase in CFR, poor health-seeking behaviour due to the high cost of treatment and clinical management of the infection, poor environmental sanitation conditions, and poor awareness observed in high-burden communities.
“This approach to engaging with the executive has led to a misperception and misunderstanding which has led many to tag the 9th National Assembly as a “rubber stamp” Assembly.
The Speaker, Mrs Adelugba, pledged the support of the House of Assembly for the police in crime fighting, maintenance of law and order and ensuring the security of lives and property.
Amid Nigeria’s surging debt profile, the House of Representatives has approved the request by President Muhammadu Buhari to convert the N23.7 trillion “ways and means” loan to a long-term bond.
Former President Olusegun Obasanjo, who supported the Labour Party, had in a letter called President Muhammadu Buhari to cancel the presidential election.
On the eve of Susan’s seventh birthday, her father assaulted her.
Mr Akpabio also predicted that by next month, the numbers of his supporters in the Senate would increase to 85 or 86.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the couple was kidnapped in the early hours of Saturday.
President Buhari says Mrs Akinfeleye's good work will continue to speak for her, particularly about the many lives she touched with her charity, kindness and love.
The LP candidate and four others are currently challenging the outcome in court.
The police in Kano North-west Nigeria said they are ready to prosecute at least 781 electoral offenders who were arrested on various offences during the conduct of the 2023 general elections across the state.
Mr Usman-Ododo, the Auditor-General for Local Government Areas in the state, backed by the state governor, Yahaya Bello, won the primary election, after other major contenders in the race for the party’s ticket withdrew for him.
Chams had 31 million shares valued at N10.1 million and traded in 85 deals.
He also said that 10 per cent (representing N32 million) would go for approved designated projects in the institutions, while the remaining three per cent would be for stabilisation funds.
While we lost Osun technically, we gained Nigeria.
Mr Benjamin said the rescheduled Mock-UTME is only for candidates who had indicated interest and paid at the point of registration.
Pilgrims travelling from Cross River will pay N2,943,000.00, those from Osun will pay N2,983,000.00 while pilgrims from Lagos, Ogun and Oyo states will pay N2,999,000.000.
“We write to inform you that our client Femi Otedola (C4430272AP) has acquired additional unit of Transcorps shares that brings his percentage holdings with us to 5.8,” Apt Securities and Funds told the registrar Africa Prudential in a letter.
The Abia State House of Assembly Tuesday suspended the Deputy Speaker, Ifeanyi Uchendu, and eight other members, over the purported impeachment of the Speaker, Chinedum Orji.
The balance in the Excess Crude Account (ECA) was $473,754.57.
Mr Oyeyemi said other members of the gang had earlier been arrested.
He alleged Taylor sent them arms and ammunition through Benjamin Yeaten, one of his trusted military chiefs.
The commission, thus, ordered a supplementary election in 69 polling units in the 20 local governments in the state.
This shows that the zone is loyal to the party and its candidates.
Sarima Owhor, another visually-impaired candidate, said the arrangement by JAMB was the “best” so far.
”I had two girls before I married him and those girls are 15 and 18.
Nigeria’s Golden Eaglets were quick to respond but saw Abubakar Abdullahi miss a golden opportunity from close range.
Also in the team are Wale Adeosun, an industrialist; and Leke Adebiyi, a diplomat and deputy secretary-general of the council.
Aside from the unpretentious ambiguity in the purported Press Statement issued by the leadership of the APC, the contents, intentions and motives of the zoning formula represent early signs of steps aimed at attempts to cabin the hard-earned Presidency for our Leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu by a few individuals with eyes on ASO ROCK POWER BUTTONS.
The attack happened on 15 March, 2023.
“I thank you all for giving me the opportunity to lead Ndigbo at this time.
The community also claims that NAOC dumps toxic waste and has not decommissioned abandoned assets.
“My Lord, you can see that my wife is robust and fresh.
Mr Amode added that the post-election disciplinary committee was expected to revert to the State Working Committee one week from the date of its constitution.
It said about 80-90 per cent of countries have fully integrated COVID-19 vaccination, diagnostic and case management services as well as services for post-COVID-19 conditions into routine service delivery.
He said that due process of law must be followed by any organisation set up by law while dealing with issues relating to law.
“I have known Eyo from secondary school, he has always been stealing, there was a time he stole half of the class school fees.
Mrs Onochie wondered why the commission should embark on such a project after the Federal Executive Council (FEC) had in 2021 awarded a $11.7 railway contract that would connect states in the region from Lagos.
“I have a paper to show where the Nigeria Army acknowledged that the property belonged to the state government, written by the army itself and signed by one major general on behalf of the chief of army staff,” he said.
He added that medication recommended by the World Health Organisation (WHO) for the infection treatment could not be found in Lagos and that the family had to travel to as far as Nasarawa State to procure one.
In May 2022, a mob of college students in Sokoto State, North-west Nigeria, lynched one of their colleagues, Deborah Yakubu, for allegedly making derogatory comments about the Islamic prophet, Mohammed.
Mrs Omotosho explained that in the feed milling industry, the major crops being used are maize and Soya beans and the nation needs to improve its production level.
Yusuf Gagdi and Miriam Onuoha also attended the declaration but did not openly challenge the arrangement.
Although, Binani’s application filed ex parte, was meant to be heard on Wednesday in the absence of other parties sued as defendants in the case, a lawyer, Afeez Matomi, announced appearance for Governor Fintiri, the 3rd respondent, in the suit.
He said the police were investigating the incident.
The committee is chaired by the Secretary to the State Government, Tony Ijohor, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) and law professor.
Let me tell you those who have been manipulating people in Nigeria have been doing it but it is coming to an end because even those they are manipulating are now dying of hunger.
And yes, we have worked our socks off in the last 30 years!”
But Mr Obi claimed to have won Rivers and Benue states in his petition.
My appreciation to H.E.
Learn the rules of good sportsmanship, know rules, know your roles, know when to fight, what to fight for and know when to walk away so you can embrace other fights,” he said.
“The Speaker of the House of Representatives and deputy should be accommodated by the other zones in view of competence and credibility of Honourable members,” Mr Ogenyi said.
The Electricity Distribution Companies (DisCos) operating in Nigeria’s electricity supply industry generated N434.94 billion in revenue in the third and fourth quarters of 2022, data obtained from the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) has shown.
The LP presidential flag-bearer said the millions of Nigerians who voted for him did not just cast their votes but, they invested their hopes in him and they deserve justice, adding, “So, we must stay the course.”
NCC-CSIRT in an advisory on Tuesday noted that WhatsApp, which is a Meta-owned service, is increasingly becoming a prime target for hackers and scammers who are always looking for ways to gain unauthorised access to users’ accounts.
It added that the court also “erred in law when it struck out a preservation order of properties reasonably suspected to have been derived from proceeds of unlawful activities notwithstanding its findings that the Respondent failed to show the genuine origin of funds used to acquire the properties under the preservation order.”
It is not a one-day affair, ” the national chairman said.
She said the other 58 rescued victims were being stabilised in the hospital and would be reunited with their families.
The plaintiffs said, “Imposing any fine whatsoever without due process of law is arbitrary and unconstitutional, as it contravenes the fundamental principles of nemo judex in causa sua which literally means one cannot be a judge in his own cause and audi alteram partem which means no one should be condemned unheard.”
Another twitter user, Ikechukwu Oyemike, in a reaction to Mr Sirika’s post, said: “It will be very helpful if we know the specs of these firefighter trucks as you called them.”
U.S. benefit-eligible employees will receive a variety of benefits including severance pay, continuing health coverage, and career transition services.”
NBC had recently fined Channels Television N5 million over an interview with Datti Baba-Ahmed.
“We are very interested in all the history of the Benin Bronzes, some of which as you are aware, are still in the Netherlands.
On 15 April, Ahmed Usman-Ododo, emerged as the governorship flagbearer of the APC in Kogi.
“The APC despite the votes it had contributed to the election of Bola Tinubu, has only one senator from Kano that is Barau Jibril, and any mistake of not making him the senate president would affect the strength and control of the region by the party.
We had to take proactive steps and that was the reason the management decided on the ban,” he said.
Aniefiok Ukommi from the University of Uyo was elected Vice President, South-south; Agnes Njoku, a professor from Imo State University as Vice President, Southeast, and Sakiru Raji, Lagos State University, Vice President, South-west.
Military speaks on calls for interim national government
“Moderate to heavy rainfall could lead to flash floods.
Those whose signatures were allegedly obtained were exonerated pending further investigations.
According to him “The Legacy Document is a report of the activities of the National Economic Council from 2015 to 2023.
He said over 40 armed soldiers from 82 Division of the Nigerian Army had stormed his residence at about 1:15 a.m. on Wednesday and allegedly man-handled his wife and children before forcefully ejecting them from the apartment.
But the Ayodeji Ayeni boys broke the deadlock after several miscued chances 10 minutes later with Taye Muritala’s outer shot beating Adeyinka into the net.
Premium Times editorial board member receives Canadian fellowship
The Dare Adeboye Foundation is focused on community development, advocating for good governance and youth empowerment.
Aside from the religious factor weighing against his candidacy for the Senate presidency, the former head of the Nigerian Governors Forum is one of the three contenders for the office who are facing investigations or trial for alleged graft.
We should first see ourselves as human beings before becoming either a commercial motorcyclist, policeman or any other professional.
Mr Mojeed has published hundreds of reports centred around agriculture, food security, climate change and environment.
The Q1 2023 press attack number marked an alarming increase as it surpassed the total for the whole of 2022 when 37 cases were reported.
Cahill admitted that these payments were sometimes anonymized in internal company accounts by replacing the names of recipients with a special code.
He wrote; “So I won’t set my eyes on you again.
We assure him of our unalloyed support always.”
US Secretary of State Blinken, on Wednesday, called Nigerian President-elect Tinubu to assure him of the US commitment to further strengthening the U.S.-Nigeria relationship with his administration.”
Nigeria has so far recorded 259,951 COVID-19 cases and 3,155 deaths according to data published by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC).
“Yes there were no sufficient or adequate consultations with you who are contesting, and it is a simple principle of democracy that you get views and opinions.
Sanwo-Olu unveils Lagos’ first set of electric buses
Mr Tinubu disclosed this in a tweet posted on his verified Twitter handle.
One of the supervisors at the centre, Victoria Ebute, confirmed to our reporter that the slight delay was a result of a technical hitch.
Other members are; Kolade Alabi, Bolaji Durojaiye, Tunde Onigbanjo, Adetoun Sanwo-Olu, Tejumade Lawal, Belinda Aderonke Odeneye, Kunle Fagbemi, Fola Hamzat, Simi Mosuro, Hakeem Shittu and Ayiri Oladunmoye.
Mrs Ogala said Mr Agu’s retraction of his confessional statement was an attempt to lie and escape punishment.
He said although the robbery charge was unlikely to “fly” in court, Mr Ohadoma’s decision to snatch the phone from Mr Ahamefula was not the right way to recover his debt.
According to her, she feels the Minister perceived it as wrong due to the “culture” and from “an honest and innocent perspective from where he has been groomed over the years to think it is right”.
He was said to be in possession of large sums of unexplained cash and property that he tried to conceal upon arrest by directing his proxies to change their locations.
There are also indications that Aliyu Wamakko (APC, Sokoto) is eyeing the position.
“While they (NLC & TUC) do this, another Nigerian airline was allowed to operate into and out of Owerri (the state capital).
She will ensure that the Bank operates successfully across its regional member countries and will oversee the full implementation of all aspects of our regional directorates in furtherance of the Bank’s development mandate,” he said.
“Since it was signed by two members of the panel it is valid.
However, the terrorists held the 11 female students.
The zone has eight local government areas and there are 106,207 eligible voters in the 166 affected polling units in 46 registered areas.
This being their first visit since the elections, they congratulated the president on the party’s victory in the presidential poll, saying, “Congratulations, your party won the presidency, a majority in the Senate and for being the leading party in the House of Representatives.
The former governor and candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the 2022 election said this in a statement he signed on Wednesday.
In terms of composition, the total domestic debt stock is N27.55 trillion ($61.42 billion), while the total external debt stock is N18.7 trillion (41.6 billion dollars)
“And in this respect, talking of the Apo six, taking into consideration, the commission adjudged the government as being in breach of the human rights of certain individuals popularly referred to as Apo six, which unfortunate incidents predates the government of Buhari.
Information from the commission website indicates that its managing director, Samuel Ogbuku, on Tuesday signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with Atlantic Global Resources Inc, to build a railway network to connect the nine states in the region.
But both decisions were later reversed by the party.
My governor, Hope Uzodinma, I must give credit to him.
Davido’s uncle, Ademola Adeleke, Governor of Osun State, showed up for his nephew at the event.
Responding, Mr Akpabio said the will of God will be done in the country.
The council’s establishment is based on the Nigeria Startup Act, 2022 (NSA, 2022), which was signed into law in December 2022.
In a statement on Monday, Mr Betara said the scholarship will cover Mr Maihanci’s son from primary school to any length he so desires.
The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, had, on March 26, 2020, secured the interim forfeiture of the sum of N290, 000,000( Two Hundred and Ninety Million) reasonably suspected to be proceeds of an unlawful activity, the landed properties and 30,000 MTN shares , following an ex parte application filed before Justice Muhammad Liman, who has since been transferred to the Kano Division of the Federal High Court.
Defection: Court dismisses APC’s suit seeking Tambuwal’s removal as Sokoto governor
Also speaking at the event, Kang Zhenlin, Deputy Mayor of Changsha Municipal People’s Government and Chairman of Changsha Federation of Industry and Commerce, said Nigeria is one of Hunan Province’s top three African trading partners.
The 1st – 6th defendants include Mr Usman-Ododo, and others who withdrew from the race for him.
“The Commissioner of Police further deployed additional Police Tactical team to complement the ongoing rescue mission,” Mr Shehu said.
The party should zone it to us.”
Peafowls receive warm welcome at Nigerian airport
“I also want to use this medium to assure you that I have noted the request put forward by the NLC Chairman, I will consider regularisation of acting appointments in the state.”
He was also charged with causing grievous hurt, mischief by fire, and inciting disturbance.
The writer argues that the INEC Chairman should have paused the collation of results process to investigate grievances by political party agents as she alleged was done in the governorship elections of March 18.
“Undoubtedly, we have met with lots of brick walls and bureaucratic bottlenecks, yet we forged ahead decisively and now all the components are at the finishing lines, the foundation having been solidly laid,” he said.
“So, it has a lot of advantages and we are working conscientiously on that.”
Meanwhile, the newly appointed librarian, Mr Awoyemi, was a Chief Librarian at the Adeyemi College of Education, Ondo, before his latest appointment.
It said the judge, Uchenna Mogbo of the Enugu State High Court, declared that the ‘purported parallel election of the officers of the National Executive Council of Ohanaeze conducted in Enugu State at the instance of the defendants is illegal and unconstitutional.’
Ex-presidential candidate asks Appeal Court to stop Tinubu’s swearing-in
“There is an urgent need to end “drip-feeding” which has inhibited the completion of critical capital projects and perpetuated the “ongoing project” syndrome.
My daughter has not been released but we’re hoping that they’ll be released soon,” he said.
The status quo antebellum i.e.
The company added that it “remains confident that it has provided all of the required documentation to the Ministry of Interior and the judicial process will address the circumstances appropriately.”
In another media briefing, Laolu Akande, spokesman for Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, said a debt sustainability analysis would be carried out by the Debt Management Office (DMO) on the payment of the debt.
Justice Abba Bello Mohammed, one of the judges sitting at Nigeria’s Presidential Election Petition.
Nigerian Scholar Jacob Olupona elected to American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
NBA delegation visits kidnapped former bar president Okey Wali’s family
Another Nigerian who sustained a hand injury has been treated and discharged from hospital.
“This would require strong determination from the government and crucially, cooperation from host communities and the security agencies.
Profit-taking led Nigerian stocks further down last week as a low risk appetite among investors caused equities to shed 1.1 per cent.
Past elections in Rivers were marred by electoral violence, including snatching of ballot boxes.
“However, we also recognise that there is a lot more work to be done to improve the lives of Nigerian workers.
Buhari mourns ex-NUC chief Idris Abdulkadir
“And I put forward my position there that the two reasons the election was the best was one.
The IGW also sought to elevate the voices of the youth representatives, by systematically including them in all central debates during the weekend.
Speaking about the root cause of the police harassment and brutality, he said it was a reflection of “social dislocation” that stems from the recruitment process.
However, the electoral body, INEC, has declared the results as “illegal” because the wrong official announced the results and declared the winner.
– explored Africa’s current and future position in the multilateral system, the need to amend both the representativity and efficiency of the current system, and the rise of alternative “competitors” at multilateral level.
Three first half goals from Taye Muritala, Cyril Olisema and Ubong Friday gave the Promise Keepers a befitting win after their shocking lone goal defeat to Plateau United during matchday 14 in Jos.
For crying out loud, there are over 176,000 polling units across Nigeria.
In the North-east, Mr Tinubu polled 1,185,458 votes
The 2023 general election is the worst ever as reported by virtually all the international observers and communities.
JAMB spokesperson Fabian Benjamin, however, said the board would ensure that all candidates willing to register for the DE, particularly those who have purchased their PINs, are registered.
She calls for investment in Human Resources for Health (HRH) and overall human capital development in health.
Mr Nguroje added that the two victims, Suleiman Abdullahi (23), and Ruwa Buba (11), residents of Mayo Sumsum Village in Toungo Local Government Area, were rescued unhurt.
I don’t have money to spend again.
The election petition court asked Mr Tinubu and the APC to respond to APM's applications.
He pledged to ensure a robust legislation and inclusiveness under his leadership, if given the mandate.
Have you heard anybody from the North-central zone talking about party supremacy?” he said.
Unilever Nigeria declared in a statement in March it would be prioritising “business continuity measures that reduce exposure to devaluation and currency liquidity” after announcing a planned end to the production of its popular brands, including Omo, Sunlight and Lux.
She noted that by the time Nigeria starts compounding or processing feed for animals, the nation would be in trouble because it is not harnessing its potential effectively.
Recently, former President Olusegun Obasanjo made a passionate plea for clemency for the embattled senator.
This is a free web app for creating all types of bills and receipts online.
If this was never sufficiently envisaged, one organisation did, apparently projecting scientifically and taking advantage of intellectual efforts well cultivated and nurtured on elections.
Permission is granted on all three grounds,” he declared.
“We hold the Governor of Imo State, Hope Uzodinma responsible for any further harm done to any worker in the state now or during the industrial action.
When CPJ called the publicly available number for the Djibouti police, the person who answered said they were not familiar with Gobeze’s case.
PREMIUM TIMES reported that the ruling APC, on Monday, announced its adoption of Tajudeen Abbas (Kaduna) as its choice for the position of Speaker of the 10th House, which will be inaugurated next month.
The Young Progressives Party and All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) have one seat each.
Prior to his arrest, Gobeze’s reporting focused on recent unrest in Amhara regional state, following the demobilization of the Amhara State Special Forces.
“Therefore, Senator Gemade, Professor Shija, and five others that are affected by the said suspension are, and remain, bonafide members of the Benue State Chapter of our Party,” the statement reads in part.
Danfo’ driver dies, others injured after crash with BRT
Mr Adegoke adjourned the case until May 30 for alternative dispute resolution (ADR) mechanism.
Article 19(2) establishes Nigeria’s obligations to respect ‘the right to freedom of expression,’ which includes the freedom to seek, receive and impart information, regardless of frontiers.”
It is also an offence in Nigeria, her country of origin that she now holds and views with disdains.
“Interest groups and leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) also tried to intervene.
While APC took Cross River in the South-south, the PDP maintained its dominance in Rivers, Delta, and Akwa Ibom states.
Mr Wali has now spent nine nights in the kidnappers’ den as of Wednesday.
Reps ask Buhari government to halt “last minute” concession of Ajaokuta Steel Co.
The US criminalizes seditious conspiracy by virtue of 18 U.S.C.
Mr Maikyau recalled leading a delegation of NBA officials and other senior lawyers on a visit to Mr Wali’s family in Port Harcourt on Sunday, when, he said, he “expressed our solidarity with the family in this trying time”.
A source in the Wanzamai community who asked not to be named for security reasons, said while 85 people were abducted from his village, the terrorists also abducted people from Kucheri same day.
“Words cannot adequately convey my heartfelt sorrow over Papa’s death, for he was a kind and beautiful soul who spread love to all who encountered him.”
These revealing statistics come over 25 years after the Beijing Declaration of 1995 themed: “Action for Equality Development and Peace”.
When she accepted Quinn’s offer to support her financially, she was ill, going through a divorce, and earning a meager salary as a government lawyer, she said.
WHO says life expectancy increased from 46 to 73 years
Femi Falana, a human rights lawyer, also backed calls for live broadcast of election petition cases.
They also stated that the coalition is backed by APC and PDP governors.
Mr Soyinka reiterated that during the meeting, the word “Reconciliation was never bruited, neither in itself nor in any other form.
Liberia: Finnish Appeal Court wraps up war crimes trial in Liberia
“A very happy public service translates into a booming local economy across the state”, he said.
Headquartered in the United Kingdom, SDN, with 19 years of operation in Nigeria’s Niger Delta region, said it was bordered by the country’s domestic gas use expansion plans and the rising interest in its gas products in Europe and the UK.
Seven months after the kingmakers submitted the name of the winning candidate to Governor Seyi Makinde, anxiety is rife in Oyo kingdom over the delay in the announcement of the new Alaafin.
In Kebbi State, the party lost several seats.
Mr Tinubu arrived at the/ Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja, on Monday at about 4:15 p.m.
He said the discussion is to be presented by the Guest Speaker and a renowned economist, Muda Yusuf, who would lay out the challenges facing governance at the sub-national level and possible solutions.
The oil rich Niger Delta states particularly Rivers, Delta, Akwa Ibom and Bayelsa have suffered years of oil spillage, which have destroyed farmlands and aquatic lives in the area.
Earth Day: Environmentalists call for change of behaviour
“The government of Ondo is not one without pity; the pleas and cry for leniency made us soft pedal a little for the remaining occupants to pack their loads and pick a few things from the house because we are still coming back to demolish all the houses affected.”
It is not out of order to debate this, and back the security in their action to stability.
He reiterated NPHCDA’s commitment to providing accessible, affordable, and quality primary healthcare services to all Nigerians.
Mr Cole was at the INEC office to obtain documents to lodge a petition against INEC’s declaration of Siminialayi Fubara as the winner of the 18 March governorship election in the state.
“I want Nigerians and my colleagues to join me in prayers so that by God’s grace we will get to know the truth of the matter.
Responding, the petitioners ‘ counsel, Mr Uzoukwu, told the court that he was concerned by the language of his colleagues.
Mr Ekweremadu was born on 12 May, 1962.
I do hope Mr. and Mrs. Ekweremadu have learnt from this distressing experience of theirs to guide their future actions or inactions so they will continue to be outstanding members of their community and will continue to contribute fully to the good of the society in particular and the nation in general.
“These are the only three Nigerians that made the list,” Forbes added.
The police spokesperson in Imo State, Henry Okoye commented under the Twitter post, saying the officers’ behaviour was “totally unacceptable”.
Mr Osinbajo also commended the UI Department of Nutrition and Dietetics for its earlier role in the Nigerian food chain, even as he urged the department to engage more in research “that is in synergy with the needs of relevant government agencies.”
Mr Osinbajo, who contested the 2022 presidential primary of the APC but lost to Bola Tinubu, said high competition during elections increases the level of division in the country.
The SSS claimed that it recovered military uniforms and an amount of money during the raid.
Commander of the Order of the Federal Republic (CFR), among others.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the coordinators of his campaign group, named ” Unity Group for TJ Abbas for Speaker”, consist of returning and new members from APC, PDP, NNPP, LP and APGA.
[PHOTO CREDIT: Twitter handle of Uzor Kalu]According to him, the successful return of the president-elect attests to the comments which he made on Friday, in which he dismissed claims that Mr Tinubu is not well and receiving medical treatment.
Benue State is an agrarian zone and so we must focus on agriculture and upgrade it.
In the interview which was conducted before the sentencing, she said it has been hard for her to wrap her head around the conviction.
The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has asked the Federal High Court in Abuja to dismiss a suit by Minister of State for Labour and Employment, Festus Keyamo, seeking the probe and prosecution of former Vice President Atiku Abubakar.
He submitted that the defendant ignored warning signals and ran into an oncoming train and negligently killed one OreOluwa Aina, as well as Tolulope Emmanuel, Olayinka Rokosu, Ganiyat Salaudeen, Lasisi Isah and Victoria Dada.
He assured that the FRSC would continue to ensure the safety of lives and property while reiterating the commitment of the agency to making the road safe for all.
But her application was filed ex parte, meaning it was meant to be heard in the absence of the other parties sued in the case.
“The Committee has an even broader composition than the one that indicted Saratu Umar in 2015.
They have lynched and murdered their imaginary enemies.
An anonymous source told Daily Trust that those arrested are suspected of working as informants to terrorists gang, believed to be responsible for widespread kidnapping for ransom in the area.
“Meanwhile, frantic investigative efforts are on course to arrest other members of the syndicate, while the suspects will be arraigned in court once the investigation into the case is concluded,” Mr Ndukwe stated.
His triumph assures us that even when it seems that God is asleep and does not care, God wakes and subdues the turbulent seas (Mk.
Recent examples confirm this pattern.
Securing a spot in the semi-finals will guarantee Nigeria’s Golden Eaglets a place in the FIFA U-17 World Cup, a tournament they have won an impressive five times.
He noted that energy will remain the top priority of his administration till his last day in office.
“Engaging the media as a key player to be tasked with its agenda-setting role, educational institutions must introduce a curriculum of peace studies and promote the development of peace clubs in secondary schools.
“Section 145(2) provides that, ‘a prosecution under this Act shall be undertaken by legal officers of INEC or any legal practitioner appointed by it.’ Under section 2(b), the commission ‘shall have power to promote knowledge of sound democratic election processes.’”
FCT police boss meets traditional rulers over communal clash in Abuja
Mr Ekweremadu represents Enugu West Senatorial District in the current Senate.
“They ignored the notice and refused to clean up, rather the pile of garbage in the market premise grew worse.”
The EFCC a few days ago wrote to Mr Akpabio, through his lawyer, Umeh Kalu, SAN, requesting him to turn himself in at the commission’s headquarters, Abuja, on 9 May.
In a protest letter submitted to Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, Ozalla Development Union said, “We are resolved to treat this case as a matter of great importance and with utter dispatch to avoid this case falling into the bucket of numerous unresolved murder cases.”
Presidential Transition Council disowns fake programme of events in circulation
She plans to do everything to entrap him in herself.
Mr Ememanka described the allegations as “stupid and absolutely senseless.”
In the far-reaching judgement upholding his case on Tuesday, the court nullified all the decisions the board of the NNPCL had taken since his removal from office.
The Lagos State Government and the Nigeria Police Force have agreed to collaborate in rebuilding 25 Barracks and facilities that have become dilapidated in the state.
All the evacuees will be airlifted from Egypt directly to Nigeria.
First, the language competence of the ghost bank rep was substandard, and the rush to ask for his secret pin by the agent was suspicious.
“Commodity prices that rose sharply following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine have moderated, but the war continues, and geopolitical tensions are high.
Mr Dogara, a Christian from the North-east, also emerged as the Speaker by defeating Mr Gbajabiamila, who paired with Mohammed Monguno, another Muslim from the North-east.
The Commissioner of Police in Imo State, Mr Barde, commended the operatives for “a job well done,” stressing that policing is “collective business,” Mr Okoye said.
The Sudanese army on Saturday, according to Aljazeera, said it would facilitate the evacuation of American, British, Chinese and French citizens and diplomats from Sudan, while Saudi Arabia and Jordan were already evacuating via Port Sudan on the Red Sea.
Discussions of a ceasefire in Sudan raised hopes on Saturday that foreign nationals stranded in the country amid heavy fighting between rival military groups could soon be evacuated.
“It was the freest and the most authentic Nigeria had ever held; and that is despite the effort of the opposition to delegitimise the election.
He said from ancient history, colours had served as inspiration for heroic acts of self-sacrifice and became the symbol of the fighting spirit of regiments.
“As you are aware, our President-elect is from the South West, Vice-President-elect from the North East and National Chairman of our party, APC, is from the North Central, so the North West should get the Speaker,” Mr Abbas explained.
From September 2022 to March 2023, the report said the cost of making a pot of Jollof rice increased in every market.
The days ahead will, however, demand better understanding and cooperation from all sides, because leadership will require that we take tough and hard decisions so that our people and all Nigerian workers can live more abundantly.
The second approval for the labour minister was on policy on HIV/AIDS, which aims to guarantee personal human rights for people with HIV in workplaces so that they are not discriminated against and are given equal rights.
It said it had deployed 400 firefighters and responded to 600 calls since Tuesday morning.
Nine years after Boko Haram abducted 276 students from a girls’ school in Chibok, 98 girls are still being held by Boko Haram and a slew of abductions have taken place since, revealing the utter failure of the Nigerian authorities to learn from the heartbreak of Chibok and, ultimately, to protect children, Amnesty International said today.
“Others may have also received an email informing them of bonuses of between N30,000 and N70,000 upon online validation of their bank details.”
The lawyer said his ex-parte motion was filed on April 17 and that he was ready to move it.
He said that apart from taking the party to court, Mr Gemade, a former senator, and Mr Shija, a professor, worked against the party to ensure it lost at the poll.
He also dismissed the report of protest by lawmakers, stating that none of his colleagues has raised the issue of marginalisation on the zoning arrangement.
He urged the president to continue to maintain relevance in the affairs of the SADR and that of the entire continent.
When I have an urgent paper to write today?😀.”
World Malaria Day: WHO advocates increased investment to eradicate disease in Africa
She added that the food programme is now forced to temporarily halt all operations in Sudan while it reviews the evolving security situation.
Buhari, Gbajabiamila mourn Peter Enahoro
However, that may not have changed the final outcome of the election.
Mr Soludo urged residents of the state to assist the security agencies with information on the identity or whereabouts of the gunmen.
Nigeria’s 2023 elections least violent – Official
The programme provides opportunities for 12 journalists per year from tropical countries to report on critical environmental issues, to gain valuable training, experience and credibility that will help them advance their careers in journalism and communications.
They have served as Justices of the Court of Appeal for two to 12 years.
“In the last year, conflict left households unable to leave their homes due to an increase in movement restrictions, killings and abduction of civilians, particularly in Borno, where the violence is concentrated.
The 62-year-old BUA chairman is essentially into cement and sugar as well as real estate and is building sub-Saharan Africa’s second-largest refinery and petrochemicals plant in Akwa Ibom, Nigeria.
In a preliminary objection to Atiku’s petition, Mr Tinubu, who was the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential flagbearer in the election, argued that “no incidence of corrupt practice has been made out in the petition.”
Mr Tinubu, who said former vice president having lost at the election, had no right to be declared as winner under the Nigerian laws, prayed the court to dismiss the petition for lacking in merit, substance and sincerity.
*Avoiding drying food stuff outside on the floor, or roadside where it will be exposed to contamination is important.
He further said that the 2023 General Elections were the most hard-fought and competitive ever since the return to democratic rule in 1999.
He said that during the police investigation, the convict could not give a satisfactory account of himself.
They, therefore, sought an order setting aside the N500,000 fines purportedly imposed by the NBC on each of the 45 broadcast stations on Friday, 1 March 2019.
Perhaps, this veto, like the previous ones by other Presidents, is subtly targeted at shielding the opaque manner of governance by the executive branch.
”Based on this, I am delighted to note that we have taken another step towards deepening our democracy with peaceful, transparent and credible outcomes.
The leaked documents were believed to be the most serious U.S. security breach since more than 700,000 documents, videos and diplomatic cables appeared on the WikiLeaks website in 2010.
In the announcement of Gobeze’s arrest, published on the Facebook page of the Ethiopian Federal Police and signed by the Ethiopian Security and Intelligence Taskforce, authorities said he had been arrested with the assistance of Djiboutian authorities and the International Criminal Police Organization, or Interpol.
But the parents of the deceased later denied that he was a fraudster, saying he was visiting home in Akure from Lagos for the Easter celebration with his family when the incident occurred.
I urge you to work with your untiring colleague, Right Honourable Femi Gbajabiamila, and the entire members of the National Assembly to let this be your remarkable legacy.
“On May 12, the suspect led the operatives to the Ejewu community in Udu Local Government Area of the state where the gang’s driver, Ejiro Peter, was arrested.
“Facilitate the review/promulgation of legislation and regulations for national development,” Mr Doguwa said.
The Force spokesperson, Olumuyiwa Adejobi, disclosed this on Wednesday in Lagos while briefing journalists on the project.
Perhaps more than ever before, this has been on display even in the twilight of his administration.
We will update you as soon as possible,” Mr Adejobi said on the social media site.
The second Bill is on reducing the period within which the President may authorise the withdrawal of monies from the Consolidated Revenue Fund.
“Gas is a cleaner burning fossil fuel than oil or coal, and it can play a significant role in reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
Mr Molumbo said the strategy focuses on promoting health, providing health services, protecting health, empowering health through digital technology and innovation, and performing for health by strengthening WHO country offices.
The child’s two eyes were covered due to her swollen face.
Aviation workers had on Monday blocked major access roads to both the international and domestic wings of the Murtala Muhammed Airport in Lagos, to protest poor working conditions.
They show clearly that these officers have something to hide.
It would be crucial to continuously communicate the issue of tax reforms to the citizens to gain public confidence in the system.
When the matter was becoming rowdy, I gave them two options.
The magazine went on to highlight the challenges ahead of Mr Tinubu, who is set to take office by 29 May.
The first batch of 1,600 Nigerians evacuated from Sudan are expected to arrive in Abuja on Friday, the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) said.
“I read in the newspapers all kinds of portfolios assigned to me but you know, I am a committed Nigerian.
A proper screening will be done.
World Health Day: Over 600 million Africans lack access to quality health care- WHO
Mr Oshundun said that the Minister of Labour and Employment, Chris Ngige, had intervened in the issue.
He allegedly said the election was a ‘’religious war”.
The police boss said all the suspects would soon be taken to court.
The prosecutor called two witnesses in support of its case, which was then adjourned for the opening of the case and beginning of the defence.
Meanwhile, a Saudi Arabian delegation has already been evacuated from the eastern city of Port Sudan on the Red Sea, the army spokesman said, adding that a Jordanian delegation was also to be flown out of Port Sudan, some 850 kilometres from the Sudanese capital, later on Saturday.
Vaccine maker giant, Pfizer, made this call in a statement issued as part of activities to mark the annual event, saying “after over two years of immunisation backsliding caused by COVID-19 pandemic disruptions, we must catch up, restore and strengthen immunisation services to reach the millions of people missing out on the life-saving benefits of vaccines and stop outbreaks from accelerating.”
In a statement on Friday, seen by PREMIUM TIMES, Oya James, a captain and media information officer of the OPSH, said the military would not be distracted in the quest to protect lives and properties in Southern Kaduna.
Officially, there are about 5,500 Nigerian students who are expected to arrive from Sudan in the evacuation that commenced on Wednesday.
Over 1,000 people arrived in Saudi Arabia by ship from Sudan on Wednesday, with the majority of them being foreigners, Saudi officials said.
We find, on the balance of probabilities, that Mr Fagbewesa owned the cigarettes that were seized from his bags.
According to the UK, Nigeria, alongside 53 other countries across the world, are on the list of nations suffering an acute shortage of health and social care workers, and continuing to actively engage in the recruitment of health workers from them would make achieving the Universal Health Coverage by 2030 unrealistic.
He directed Commissioners of Police and Zonal Assistant Inspectors-General of Police to ensure efficient deployment of personnel and operational assets to areas of likely security threats.
“Sometimes in 2008, the Enugu State Government wanted to take over the state property that Nigerian Army personnel were occupying and I am living in one of them.
Who is your guy?
Villagers in the Kwali area of the Federal Capital Territory have expressed fear after gunmen kidnapped 29 residents in a night raid.
More rights or fewer?
Nigeria now operates the old Workmen Compensation Act, now Employee Compensation Act 2010.
The Senate said China Development Bank (CDB) has taken over the financing of the project following the withdrawal of the China Exim Bank.
He similarly invoked the transitional provision and just issued an Order and the country is stuck with that allocation till today.
The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the major opposition party in the state, is seeking to reclaim the governorship seat it lost to the APC in the state about seven years ago.
If we won it justly then we will enjoy our victory if we didn’t win it let them take their victory,” the man who poured the libation said, according to the transcription by Channels television.
Some former senators, who served between the Second and Fourth Republics, have endorsed former Governor of Akwa Ibom State, Godswill Akpabio, and Jibrin Barau, as the president and deputy president of the 10th Senate.
The lease agreement was signed by Tinubu’s associate, Oladipo Eludoyin, a director of Aranda Overseas Corporation.
While the Project was majorly designed and developed through the technical support of the World Bank, institutions such as the International Labour Organisation (ILO), World Food Programme and UNICEF have all supported aspects of systems strengthening to build an enduring delivery system for Social Protection in Nigeria.
“It’s truly an honour to represent Africa and the Commonwealth at such an historic event.
He has an interesting career.
The Nigerian Labour Congress in Plateau, has urged Governor Simon Lalong to pay outstanding workers salaries in the state before his exit from office on 29 May.
As an activist, I travel across Nigeria and I know virtually the problems of the Nigerian youth.
“As you are all aware, the concept of gratuity payment to employees is predicated on the fact that those who have laboured for public institutions or private enterprises are entitled to the proverbial golden handshake from their employers.
Aristegui has spent nearly three decades breaking major stories on high-level corruption in Mexico, working mainly in radio and television, including CNN en Español.
The election is being conducted in Ikwo to elect the representative for Ikwo North constituency in Ebonyi House of Assembly.
“When you are registered, it is a fundamental right.
Mr Obaseki stated this on Monday in his remarks during the 2023 Workers Day celebration in Benin City, Punch newspaper reported.
Further documents obtained by PREMIUM TIMES revealed that Zavlil Holdings Limited is owned by Kolawole Aluko, an international fugitive wanted by law enforcement agencies in Nigeria and the United States for money laundering.
“The rescued civilians were given medical attention before being handed over to relevant authorities for further action,” he said.
We have ensured that Nigerian journalists have had unfettered freedom to practice their art..."
He also said the board had brought forward the conduct of its 2023 UTME which was earlier scheduled to hold from Saturday, 29 April to Tuesday, 25 April
Governor Aminu Tambuwal procured copies of the book at N125 million on behalf of himself and the Nigerian Governors Forum (NGF).
Onuoha: No, I am just telling you that when it comes to a contest that involves women, people look at it like “Oh are they competent?” Yes, I am competent.
He was re-elected in 2019 and currently serves as the Chairman, House Committee on Emergency and Disaster Preparedness.
The police boss also charged all supervising officers to ensure that intensive and proactive visibility patrols were carried out.
“Electricity supply in Q3 2022 stood at 5,024 (Gwh) from 5,227 (Gwh) in the previous quarter.
Its scales are thought to have magical and curative properties that drive demand for traditional medicine in Africa and Asia.
“The augmentation was in the sum of N17 billion which revised the contract sum to N49 billion with an additional completion time of 42 months.’’
The question is, what does he want?
It said in a short statement on Wednesday that the office of the Attorney-General of the Federation would appeal against the judgement.
I tell you that we are all fishing from the same waters, most of the people who were at the Joint Task briefing were in my secretariat before going and when they finished they also came back.
Mr Alake said Mrs Adichie relied on “rumours, hearsay, presumptuous conjectures and outright falsehood” in her letter, adding that she did not provide any evidence to back her claims.
The organization reminded the newly elected parliamentarians and their political parties of the inglorious experiences of Assembly leaderships shutting the parliament to attend court sessions during prosecution for corruption and also manipulating the parliamentary power to harass leadership of the anti-corruption agencies.
All 9 aspirants I have known and worked with for many years and I have no doubt will do well in continuing and building on the legacy of the 9th Assembly,” he said.
He was accused of blaspheming prophet Mohammad in a song he circulated via WhatsApp in March 2020.
Mr Shuaib said the government is introducing the Community-based Health Research, Innovative-training and Services Programme (CRISP ) to address this significant challenge.
This mission is open to engaging with all relevant bodies in this regard”.
Why the case of Adamawa was given huge publicity and attention was because of the involvement of an INEC National commissioner who was a victim, thus forcing INEC to take prompt action.
He said LAUTECH would benefit from the rich experience of the first-class traditional ruler as an administrator and community leader.
Atiku and PDP governors say Governor Adeleke developed Osun State "miraculously" within 100 days in office.
He noted that it is mostly assumed that there are more haemophilia cases in the developed world than the low and middle-income countries (LMIC).
The hosts started threatening Kwara United’s defence four minutes into the game with Simon Chigoziem blasting Cyril Olisema’s pass towards Adewale Adeyinka who cautiously saved the attempt, while, nine minutes later, Wisdom Ndon shot narrowly missed the target.
In the event the speakership is available as an option, the South-south may struggle with candidates, although, the party has the deputy leader of the House, Peter Akpatason, and Julius Ihonvbere, who are both from Edo State, and also Waive Francis from Delta State.
He said spontaneous jubilation of citizens in the state and across the nation at the official declaration of Mr Fintiri as the rightful winner of the election was a confirmation that the PDP and its candidate were indeed the choice of the people.
Mr Diri, who was the sole aspirant for the primary, polled 305 “yes” votes from the delegates to emerge as the PDP candidate for the 11 November governorship election.
Mr Damagum stated this on Tuesday during a meeting in Abuja with the members-elect of the House on the pending election of the leadership of the National Assembly.
Mr Tinubu recently nominated 14 people to the committee to assist him achieve a smooth transition from President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration to his own administration on 29 May.
Speaking at the inauguration ceremony, Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, said the media, the fourth estate of the realm, and the watchdog of the society, has a huge and indispensable role to play in achieving the goals of the National Multi-sectoral Plan of Action on Food and Nutrition (NMPFAN).
Up till down he has not had the humility to reach out and bring about genuine peace and reconciliation in the party, and people are still very aggrieved.
The US State Department would later congratulate Mr Tinubu for his electoral victory.
The deceased allegedly rammed into about five commercial motorcycles along Ijoka Road, by Sunday bus stop in Akure, the Ondo State capital.
Since 1999, the parties with majority members in both the Senate and the House have always produced the presiding officers of the two chambers.
Mr Dasuki was the NSA to former President Goodluck Jonathan.
“We have also held a press conference to clarify our position on the declaration of an Interim National Government when the ill-planned attempt by spin doctors to frame it as a call for a military takeover began to build heat in the polity.
But his appeal failed on Friday.
This development has been described by many as a step forward in the fight against the life-threatening disease.
The fight, which erupted on Saturday, has continued and is in its fourth day despite calls for temporary cease fire from different world leaders including the UN.
The suit is one in a series of court actions the NBC has faced in the last few years to check the agency’s perceived arbitrariness and suppression of reports critical of the government.
“Of course you know, because of the risks involved and so many other things, a lot of people are going to also take advantage; you’re going to hike up the price.
The Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) has set up 20 standing committees to help execute its agenda on different thematic areas, including the judiciary, law reform, anti-corruption, and others.
Is it to continue the marginalisation of a particular ethnic group?” he stated.
[PHOTO: TW @nidcom_gov]The evacuees were, however, assured that no Nigerian would be left behind.
Nigeria’s ruling party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) has denied any involvement in the crisis raging in one of the opposition parties, the Labour Party (LP).
Emeka Obegolu, SAN – CHAIRMAN
Cabinet on Wednesday also approved a refund of N16.8 billion to Borno for road projects executed by the state government on behalf of the federal government.
“I cannot go out because the last elections were not encouraging.
“Please pray for me.
She added that the evacuees would receive dignity packs and 100,000 naira transportation fare supported by the Dangote Foundation.
“Yesterday (Tuesday) I commenced my public engagements in which I visited Lagos to meet with the Governor-elect of Abia State and members of the Labour Party.
The European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) announced this in Strasbourg on Friday.
Afam Power, Transcorp’s most recent plant acquisition, is more than two times bigger than that size at 966MW installed capacity.
Voter apathy trailed Saturday’s supplementary election conducted by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Ebonyi State.
This was contained in a statement by the Office of the President-elect on Wednesday.
She urged the residents to abstain from all forms of social vices in the society, especially those which endanger the life of a child, just as she pleaded with everyone to contribute their quota in changing the society positively.
The judge, James Omotosho, ruled that the 7 February congress elections were not conducted in compliance with provisions of both the Electoral Act 2022 and APC Constitution.
Quadri Oluwatobiloba Adewale (Nathaniel Boys FC)
“Ohanaeze is not in a hurry to recognise Tinubu as the president-elect because any house built on a faulty foundation is bound to collapse.
On Saturday, Rotimi Kehinde, chairperson of the Labour Party’s Chairmen Forum read a communique after a meeting of the chairpersons in Abuja on Saturday in which they passed a vote of confidence in Mr Abure as national chairman.
“We have eight male adults and one female adult in the vehicles.
Nigerian journalist Peter Enahoro is dead
“Most people in the state are not even aware that the election is being held today,” he added.
The supervisor, Victoria Ebute, said the first session went on smoothly until a technical challenge was experienced during the second session which also led to a delay in the commencement time of the third session.
You filled our screens with your talent for decades.
Buhari, Tinubu exchange Sallah greetings
I will not work against the party, the party is supreme.
He extended appreciation to the people of Osun for their contributions to the development and preservation of cultural heritages.
We urge the government to consider this,” Mr Illiyasu said.
The judge, Okon Abang, granted the request by the AGF office to take over the case.
Mr Nwite then pleaded with lawyers not connected to Mr Kyari’s matter to bear with the court in the interim.
But, Mr Damagun claimed that available results from polling units indicated that Mr Fintiri won the election with a clear lead.
Security agencies kill seven gunmen in Anambra
12:19pm: Court calls Peter Obi’s petition challenging Mr Tinubu’s victory.
An election petition can only succeed with valid grounds recognized by the 1999 Constitution or Electoral Act, 2022.
The chef, who targets a 93 hours cooking marathon, has spent at least 70 hours showcasing her culinary skills using various local and intercontinental recipes to put Nigeria on the global culinary map.
The governor’s media aide said the presidency’s statement on Wednesday amounted to spitting “on the graves of our compatriots mowed down needlessly by Fulani militia,” adding that the Benue “shall not forget these atrocities.”
Speakership: Gbajabiamila denies backing Kaduna lawmaker, asks aspirants to wait for APC zoning
A five-member panel of Justices led by John Okoro, on Thursday, adjourned the suit despite frantic efforts by Mr Kalu’s legal team to convince the court to hear the case and not to defer it to another date.
You have only your consciences and your God to answer to when you listen to the claims and counter claims of Nigerian lawyers you and have to decide the future of our country.
Mr Areghan said the results of candidates sitting the examination will be released 45 days after the conduct of the last paper, while the certificates will be printed and issued to schools in less than 90 days after the release of results.
Also, Nigeria has 25 high-power naval vessels with total naval assets standing at 136 with an estimated budgetary defence allocation of about $3.4 billion.
The president advised the opposition parties in the state to shun bickering, urging them to unite in order to restore peace and harmony to the state.
Each state is to produce the president-general of Ohanaeze who would serve for a single tenure of four years, according to an existing zoning arrangement of the Igbo group.
As they moved deep into the forest, they were accosted and abducted to unknown destination by Armed Bandits,” he said.
Mr Wike gave the directive during the workers day celebration in Port Harcourt, assuring that the entire promotion exercise of other categories would be completed before the expiration of his tenure.
On public infrastructure, the governor’s aide accused the federal government of starving Benue of funds to execute contracts.
Ms Onovwakpoyeya, a superintendent of police, said the arrested suspects are members of a dreaded gang of the Ayes Confraternity who invaded the monarch’s palace with AK-47 rifles and other weapons which they used in killing him.
He had appealed to Mr Wali’s abductors to release the 64-year-old in one piece.
I am not perfect but there are some things I will do before leaving office,” he said.
The Permanent Secretary of the Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment (FMITI), Evelyn Ngige, raised this concern at the China (Changsha)-Nigeria Investment, Economic and Trade Promotion Conference, which was held recently in Abuja, Nigeria’s capital city.
“As at now, we are still looking for the book,” Mr Iyofor said.
“All invited people should make themselves available for the parade at Eagle Square, most especially the Nigeria Employers Consultative Association (NECA), the diplomatic missions and the international partners,’’ he said.
You promoted unity, you promoted fairness, you championed justice.
The accused was attached to the Lagos State police command at the time of the alleged offence.
Another 130 Nigerian evacuees from Sudan on Friday arrived in Abuja in what has now become the second batch of a government-assisted evacuation exercise.
Another lawyer, Malachi Umuebe, also announced appearance for the party.
The government posited that the Jummai Sankey-led panel of the Court of Appeal “erred in law and occasioned grave injustice on the appellant (government) when it held that the extraordinary rendition of” Mr Kanu “robbed the trial court of the jurisdiction to entertain the charges pending before the court” even before the IPOB leader “jumped bail and absconded.”
Mr Adekoye explained that the group was known for perpetrating gruesome acts of sextortion and terrorising young girls and other residents of the FCT and its environs.
It also involves the development of agro filled/cargo terminals and establishment of maintenance, repairs and overhaul centres.
Mr Jibirin has reportedly settled for Deputy Senate President.
The petitioner, who lives at 23, Tunde Davids Close, Agege, Lagos, has two children for Segun, ages eight and 11.
Hassan Gusasse,” he said.
The Federal Government and governor of Kaduna State, Nasir El-Rufai, may currently be at loggerheads over the latter’s alleged encroachment of a parcel of land belonging to Federal Government College (FGC), Malali, Kaduna State.
But let the Presidential spokesman remember that Governor Ortom is extremely grateful to the people of the State for always giving him the opportunity to serve them.
“We are moving as a group to get back the institution,” Mr Betara said.
Despite saying the government was committed to ending the discrimination, in a leaked letter in August 2022, the head of the civil service of the federation, Folashade Yemi-Esan, reiterated the discrimination to the National Commission for Mass Literacy, Adult and Non-Formal Education (NMEC).
The Aviation Minister, Hadi Sirika, has said there is no going back on the planned demolition of the aviation agencies’ offices in Lagos.
Read EFCC’s statement in full:
“Our party, therefore, demands that INEC should without further delay announce the results as already collated from the Polling Units and declare Governor Fintiri as winner.
“Now, because of limited resources and to reduce pressure on the government, we opened up discussions with other interested organisations, unsolicited proposals have come for the concessioning of Baro in Niger State, Oguta in Imo and Lokoja, Kogi capital; although they are still under construction.
After listening to the arguments, the panel advised Mr Ozekhome to withdraw his applications to pave way for a speedy hearing of the main suit.
Court orders interim forfeiture of N725 million property linked to ex-NIMASA boss
Its presidential candidate, Mr Obi, came third in the presidential election while it also won the third-highest number of seats in both the Senate and the House of Representatives.
“What we signed on 25 April is simply the opening phase that will determine how far we will go, but definitely showcases how interested the international partners are in tapping into the Niger Delta region.
I am qualified, the party is watching all of us and I bet you the party will zone this position to favour me.
The governor said he did not give the LP and other political parties an opportunity to win any election in the state because of what he had “put in place” in the state.
UK-based professor opens entrepreneurship centre in Oyo
So he has a lot to share with all of us and it will make a very interesting read because there are critical things we will learn from it.
ECOBANK had, in an ex-parte motion marked: FHC/ABJ/CS/469/2023, sued the Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF), National Security Adviser (NSA) and the Federal Government through the Niger Delta Amnesty Programme as 1st to 3rd respondents respectively.
It said the area had been severely impacted by the 2022 flooding, which led to the loss of lives, the displacement of people, and significant damage to property, including the destruction of 8,457 houses and the submersion of 4,500 farmlands.
Mr Wase is one of the leading APC lawmakers opposed to the party’s zoning arrangement.
The police did not provide further information about those who were reported to have been abducted by the insurgent.
Five years later (October 2017), Mr RK left Mary to return to the UK and rekindle his relationship with his estranged wife.
She also noted that financial investment in PHC oriented by the building blocks of health systems, particularly a health workforce, health infrastructure, medicines, and health technologies, should be supported and guided by evidence.
Supplementary Elections: Polling booths open early in Imo amidst tension
Mr Gowon was Nigeria’s head of state between 1966 and 1975 when the country fought a bitter Civil War.
The former governor also wished Muslims a happy Eid-el-Fitr in advance and urged unity regardless of the many challenges in the country.
Mr Ogbuli noted that the petitioners’ witnesses in their testimony before the panel did not convince him that there was over-voting.
Nigeria begins evacuation of its citizens in Sudan
“ Cloudy atmosphere with intervals of sunshine are envisaged over the North Central with chances of early morning thunderstorms over parts of Nasarawa, the Federal Capital Territory, Kogi, Niger and Kwara States.
He claimed that the Supreme Court had accelerated hearing in political cases, but chose to treat Mr Kanu’s case differently.
They include a deputy dean, the university’s public relations officer, directors, deputy directors and acting heads of departments.
Umar Abubakar (Devine Football Academy)
He said the development was part of the decisions taken at the JAMB management’s emergency meeting held on Sunday.
The meeting, organised by the joint task, was held at Transcorp Hilton in Abuja on Tuesday evening.
The anti-graft agency also said that he recruited his relatives and bankers to operate fake bank accounts through which illicit funds were channelled.
A similar trend is also observed in the Nigerian legal profession, with 68 per cent of female lawyers represented in the public sector and 61 per cent working in senior roles.
The federal government has advised farmers to partner with experts in the area of agricultural research and development to curtail perennial post-harvest losses of produce.
Responding, the APGA factional chairman admitted exchanging pleasantries with Mr Rinamsomte earlier in the day.
This is just a reflection of the situation in most urban custodial centres where we have congestion at the moment.
“So, as we are now, the police have not told us what happened to the boy (Mr Asadu).
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reported that Mr Kaigama said Nigerians must first learn to stand together as a nation and genuinely work towards peace and unity.
Reviewing the 283-page book, Mr Abati said the outgoing justice minister “enriches our knowledge of public service, the purpose of law, leadership and self-actualisation.”
Senate condemns Benue killings, asks security agencies to probe attacks
Section 137 provides that (1) A person shall not be qualified for election to the office of President if –
When contacted the spokesperson of the police, in Taraba State, Usman Abdullahi, said he heard of the incident but he was yet to receive an official briefing on the matter.
Rotimi Edu, President of NCRIB, also in a statement made available in Lagos, described the incident as a case of negligence by the building experts who undertook the construction.
The state treasurer of the association, Chioma Nwakanma, said there was need to invest in science, innovation, storytelling and education that help safeguard species for healthier existence.
“PONLE knew that he had no right to the money and that the email was intended to defraud Victim Company B into paying money owed to the supplier to an account controlled by PONLE rather than the supplier.
Democracy is sometimes a long haul.
The video ended with the minister turning his head back as he set the hood on his head, thumped up towards the camera, and continued jogging in short steps.
The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers State has dissociated itself from the planned visit of Nigeria’s President-Elect, Bola Tinubu to the oil-rich state on Wednesday.
He also attended the Lagos campus of the Nigerian Law School between 1989 and 1990.
A certified true copy (CTC) of the Supreme Court ruling on the APGA leadership crisis between Messrs Njoku and Oye, who is also laying claim to the office, directed INEC to accord Mr Njoku recognition as APGA national chairman.
Special Adviser to the President
In a statement on Friday by it director of corporate communications, Ibitoye Abosede, did not reference the statement made by the chairperson of the commission board, Mrs Onochie, but said the MoU it signed may have been misconstrued by some persons to mean Engineering, Procurement, Construction, EPC, contract.
According to him, the government has been steadfast in the payment of workers’ salaries and recently has approved the payment of their promotion arrears.
The major drive behind the establishment of the Geoecology lab, he said, is to understand the relationship between the environment and agriculture which is only possible by acquiring real data and information from farmers.
Ex-staff or certified Next-of-Kin are required to come with documents such as the original and photocopy of the letter of first appointment, the original and photocopy of the letter of confirmation of appointment, the original and photocopy of the letter of disengagement, and the original and photocopy of certificate of birth/declaration of age.
From there I flew to Enugu to engage and have interaction with the state party chairman of the Labour Party, as well as the governorship candidate of the Labour Party in Enugu State.
Mr Innocent said the body frowns at the deliberate refusal by the government to pay the salary arrears of 2014,2015 and 2016 to its members as well as the arrears of the consequential adjustment of minimum wage.
“Also taken to the station are the four male suspects who have volunteered statements.
He added: “Summit like this where state and non-state actors are working together will hopefully lead to a consensus where resources will be mobilised to save lives, and policies will be discussed to prevent a potentially catastrophic food insecurity reality.”
“Yes, during the military, there were draconian laws which fortunately some people had even called such laws should be returned where drug pushers were killed.
“Interim government is undemocratic, unconstitutional, and unknown to our laws as a court of competent jurisdiction had in time past so declared,” he said.
This gave him the spread to be the only candidate that gained 25 per cent of votes in 29 states.
SC/CV/687/2021 be deleted and replaced with the name “Edozie Njoku” so that the sentence on page 13 would now correctly read:
A witness who narrated the incident, said the man identified as Eyo, has been known for petty stealing around the area and had been warned to desist from such.
At least six people have been killed by a windstorm in Delta State, South-south Nigeria.
Chukwuka Ikwuazom, SAN – CHAIRMAN
EFCC says the convict perpetrated the N20 million fraud under the guise of executing a contract for the supply of water pumps awarded by the Norwegian Refugee Council, a non-governmental organisation.
Initiated in 2014, the FRLP initiative is designed to equip female journalists with the skills, finesse, support and tools to take bold steps that will help position them for the highest leadership positions in their various media houses.
“We went through a lot of predicaments; name calling and a lot of unusual things; but putting all things together, I want to say that we are grateful.
They were airlifted from Port Sudan.
NAN also reports that shortly after the judges recessed after the opening to prepare to hear the petitions, the presidential candidate of the Labour Party, Peter Obi, walked into the courtroom and exchanged pleasantries with lawyers and litigants in court.
Eventually, none of the passengers were kidnapped but the TRACE officer was unlucky.
Globally, as of 26 April, the WHO dashboard shows there were 764,474,387 confirmed cases of COVID-19, including 6,915,286 deaths.
The UK government, through the Solicitor General for England and Wales, appealed against the sentence imposed by the Crown Court of Woolwich, describing it as unduly lenient.
We continue to thank all Nigerians especially the youths and Obidients as they have remained focused on the core mission of a New Nigeria That Is Possible, even after the presidential elections of 25th February 2023.
Mr Mulombo, the Country Representative, said a large proportion of a country’s budget should go to health needs of the people, especially at the primary health care level.
There were no results in some polling units either because the Bimodal Voter Accreditation System malfunctioned or people did not come out to cast their votes, as observed at Ake Hostel UNIPORT Polling Unit in Choba Ward.
The Judge ordered the convict to pay the sum of N2m to his victim or serve an additional five years prison term, in default.
He said that accreditation was going smoothly, BVAS was working well while accreditation and voting were in progress.
Sani Gwarzo, permanent secretary, Federal Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, said 732 persons would arrive today from the Egypt borders.
Buhari salutes NYSC at 50, lauds Gowon for vision
The technology is leveraged for entertainment, gaming, satire, and culture.
A factional Secretary-General of the Ohanaeze, Okechukwu Isiguzoro, had last week claimed that “Ohanaeze will participate fully in the inauguration of the President-elect, Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu.”
“Consequent to the above, the hoodlums attacked the officers unprovoked and attempted forcefully dragging a rifle from one of the officers which led to a shot being discharged from the barrel during the process of the struggle.
He advised those thinking they would “rob” Mr Tinubu of his mandate to have a re-think because he (Tinubu) cannot be stopped.
“The judgment of the Supreme Court has further restored the confidence Nigerians repose in the institution of the Judiciary and the hope for the sustenance of democracy in our country,’’ he said.
I’m strong, very strong.”
The Chairman of Gwadabawa Local Government, Aminu Aya, told the Voice of America Hausa Service Saturday morning, that some terrorists had attacked Gigane village and abducted scores of residents.
It said that an appeal had already been filed in appeal number: CA/ABJ/CR/653/2022.
Asked by Nigeria’s lawyer whether the accountant wanted to amend the records, Murray responded: “I would go further and say he wants to fiddle the books.” Was the accountant proposing to produce sham invoices in order to make improper payments seem proper?
The Minister of State for Labour and Employment, Festus Keyamo, also posted a congratulatory message on his Twitter handle.
Mr Maikyau did not give details of how Mr Wali’s release was secured.
The NPC had postponed the Population and Housing Census earlier scheduled from 3 May to 7 May indefinitely.
Other people escaped and reported the incident to the soldiers at the Buni Gari, the soldiers were already on alert following the gunshots from the attack.
Police charge man with robbery for seizing debtor’s phone
The Amotekun Corps has arrested a 45-year-old man, Gbenga Ogunfadeke, for allegedly chaining and confining his two children, Yusuf (18) and Dasola (17), until their death.
What happened is that there has been a misunderstanding between the residents and some Fulanis.
“More than half of the community has been encroached by the ravaging sea surge, we are calling on governments and relevant agencies to please come to our rescue, Ayetoro must not go into extinction,” he pleaded.
The Summer Games are regarded as one of the world’s most popular sports events.
Second Term: Lagos govt sets up swearing-in committee for Sanwo-Olu
“An important and overlooked aspect of the Tinubu/Shettima victory is that it ensures, not only an orderly transfer of power from the outgoing administration to the incoming one, but also the safety of policies and programmes of the outgoing government.
The APC added that Mr Okanigbuan (listed as the 2nd petitioner) “is not the 1st petitioner’s AA’s validly nominated and sponsored candidate to contest the presidential elections held on Feb. 25.”
DHQ also said troops apprehended no fewer than 59 terrorists and kidnappers, as well as their collaborators, while 118 abducted victims across the theatres of operation were rescued within the period.
Mr Tinubu, who is out of the country, stated this on Friday in a statement he personally signed.
Members of the panel are: Haruna Tsammani, Stephen Adah, Boloukuoromo Moses Ugo, Abba Mohammed and Misitura Bolaji-Yusuf
This was contained in a statement by the Agency’s Director, Media and Advocacy, Femi Babafemi, on Sunday in Abuja.
However, most of the candidates have been campaigning across the country.
Nigeria’s Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo, has advised the nation’s universities to explore private funding as an alternative to government interventions, saying doing so is vital to the sustainability of academic institutions.
The present situation is a win-win for us.
Trending Nigerian rapper Tochukwu Ojogwu popularly known as Odumodu Blvck also performed at the Timeless concert on sunday.
We were happy that the judge, James Omotosho, was courageous enough to strike down the offending provisions of the new CAMA owing to their inconsistency with the provisions of the constitution.
“Your Excellency, as things are, I am painfully left with no option.
For the gas export market, he said the ongoing NLNG Train 7 will expand Nigeria’s LNG production capacity to about 30 million tons per annum (30 MTPA).
INEC refuses to provide 70% of electoral documents – Obi tells court
Speaking with journalists at his Asokoro residence in Abuja on Saturday, Mr Nnamani said his family had been battling fake news about his health and his late wife.
“My lord, I only said that anybody in this case, who lied against me to go to jail or send anyone to prison by telling lie, calamity will befall that person,” he said.
“The judgment has also made it so clear that the issue of Edozie Njoku’s removal, at any point in time, is within the confines of the internal affairs of APGA and it is NOT justiciable.
They chased everybody away.
Stressing the three-week gap between the period of Mr Masari’s notice of withdrawal and his actual pull-out from the contest, APM argued that by the time Mr Tinubu picked Mr Shettima as his running mate, the president-elect’s “candidature had lapsed” and he was no longer in a position constitutionally to nominate a running mate since he had ceased to be a presidential candidate of the APC.
It is a presiding office or nothing.
“The records show that deficits in the annual budgets, including supplementary budgets, rose to N10.78 trillion in 2023 from N1.62 trillion in 2015.
I don’t know whether they’re doing this with the INEC.
“The Commissioner of Police Zamfara State Police CP Kolo Yusuf psc, has reassured the Public especially families of the abducted women and Children of Wanzamai Village in Tsafe LGA of the State that, the Command in collaboration with the Military and Vigilante are making tireless efforts to rescue the victims hale and hearty and Re – Unite them with their families/Relations.
According to him, the development will go a long way in building the confidence of party members across the country in preparation for the future of the party.
Some Nigerians also called on the minister to be more accountable and transparent by also providing the public with the specification of the vehicles.
Mr Kukah in his message asked the president-elect to help Nigerians recover from the feeling of “collective rape by those who imported the men of darkness that destroyed our country.”
The project also aims to strengthen the delivery system of the safety net programme, through the use of digital technologies, expansion of coverage, and improvement of efficiency.
“We are therefore constrained to write to your office, knowing your penchant for due process and unblemished integrity to always ensure that justice is not only done but seen to be done in any case brought before you.
Court orders release of documents in corruption trial of Usman, Fani-Kayode, others
BBC also notes that Mr Ukpo may not return to Nigeria following his attorney’s statement about being scared for the former’s life.
A score of 0.0000 is considered perfect.
President-elect Tinubu returns home, says “I’m ready for the task ahead”
Mr Keyamo also claimed that Mr Obi’s votes in Anambra were inflated and that it is contrary to what can be obtained on the INEV Result Viewing Portal (IReV).
The first approval pertained to the woodworking ecosystem, with the government revising regulations dating back to 1959 and putting new regulations in place as empowered by the law.
He added that the committee would be chaired by Ike Chioke, an engineer, renowned investment banker, and Group Managing Director of Afrinvest (West Africa) Ltd.
The Lagos State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has suspended its chairperson, Philip Aivoji, and his deputy, Tai Benedict, pending the outcome of court cases.
“So we would like to await the full research presentation so that we have a full knowledge of what it is talking about,” the official said.
In all 36 states, less than half of the eligible population turned out to vote, and only Jigawa state had a turnout above 40 per cent.
After all, she is human.
Mr Tinubu and his deputy, Kashim Shettima, are from the South-west and North-east respectively.
Historically, summits have been viewed in a dim light – criticised for their lack of substance and for perpetuating imbalanced power dynamics.
He, however, commended the efforts of the outgoing governor which he said have made significant improvements in poverty reduction.
She said her election as the first female governor in the country would encourage other women to participate actively in politics.
• Ezea Okechukwu Enugu North
“I forward herewith for your information and necessary action, the order under the hand of the Honourable, the Chief Justice of Nigeria/Presiding Judge and the seal of the Court in respect of the above appeal.
He said in 2022, the trade volume between Hunan and Nigeria was $1.086 billion, an increase of 66.12 per cent year on year.
“With its commitment to research and education, CePAPS is helping to shape the future of Africa and to ensure that the continent remains a vibrant and dynamic place for generations to come,” a statement by Mr Peterside’s media team said.
He also stated that he had never attempted to harm anyone, let alone “his own blood.”
Data from CDC shows that the current outbreak affected 104 countries that have not historically reported Mpox, while only seven are endemic.
She alleged that the former minister said this much to some people who tried to mediate on the matter.
People should be able to easily make workers’ contributions, even from the comfort of their offices, and generate certificates.
According to the traditional ruler, the land is along Ilesa road, Abayagani, Ile-Ife.
“The North West gave the APC 2,652,824 million votes even when both the president-elect, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and his vice president-elect, Senator Kashim Shettima were not from the zone.
Mr Olusola also noted that the 4-year-old said when “she fell down while playing with her friend, the security guard told her there is plenty of dirt in her “wee wee” i.e.
However, the APC nominated two Muslims for the two leadership positions in the two legislative chambers – Ahmad Lawan (Senate) and Femi Gbajabiamila (House).
d. Hajiya Zainab O. Suleiman, Chairman, Editorial Board, Blueprint
She has become the proverbial serial widow whose mourning and weeping the Yoruba express as Iwo l’eni, iwo lana bi ekun ap’okoje.
I share your sentiments that there is a need for us to put a stop to this.
UPDATED: APC adopts Akpabio, Abbas as senate president, speaker
The Medical Director, of Sub-Saharan Africa for Pfizer, Kodjo Soroh, said Pfizer’s efforts at advancing treatment for haemophilia and bridging gaps in access to care resonates with this year’s theme of WHD, Access For All: Prevention of Bleeds.
“All items recovered and arrested suspects from the region have been handed over to the relevant authority for further action.
Mr Ikpeazu said failure by the workers to resume work immediately would frustrate an ongoing transition process from his administration to the incoming administration of Alex Otti of the Labour Party.
However, the government of President Muhammadu Buhari has failed to implement the judgment.
“My lord, this morning when I came to the court, he (Njoku) saw me, waved his hand at me and said prosecutor how are you and we shook hands.
“There are a lot of gaps here and there, but I think overall, INEC did well.
Commending the National Steering Committee, led by the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed and the Minister of State, Budget and National Planning, Clem Agba, for delivering yet again, on this important national assignment, the president described the unveiling and public presentation of NA 2050 as another milestone in the ‘‘annals of history of our planning experience, post-independence.’’
The longest-serving Justice of the Court of Appeal among the five members of the panel, Mr Tsammani has spent half of his 24 years as a judge on the Court of Appeal bench which he was elevated to on 16 July 2010.
His wife also had two adult sons who did not live with them.
The loan, if approved by the Senate, will be used to fund the government’s conditional cash transfer to vulnerable Nigerians.
Nigeria’s electoral process has been marred by vote buying as politicians offer money to voters in exchange for votes.
There are many more campaigns of calumny against Mr Peter Obi planned for the near future both before and during the court process.
The landed properties are: 50 hectares of farmland at Plot No.
The Senate had mandated the committee to report back to it within one week.
“On inspection, we discovered that the place was set on fire to expose the reinforcement for them to cut it off and that is what they have done.
The decision of Senate President Ahmad Lawan to fight a tough battle to return to the National Assembly has also trigerred speculation that he might jump into the race for a second term.
The Debt Management Office (DMO) says decades of operating budget deficits by successive governments are responsible for Nigeria’s high debt profile.
The new House of Representatives will be inaugurated on 13 June, about two weeks after the inauguration of the president.
The president, members of his entourage as well as some traditional and religious leaders from the six geopolitical zones of the country, were led by a delegation from the General Presidency for the Affairs of the Grand Mosque in the performance of the rituals.
Both deals summed up to N817.3 million.
The result is an immeasurable potential for initiative, creativity and productive growth in all areas of human assets…This will be Africa’s century.”
Obasanjo writes British court, seeks leniency for Ekweremadu
“I’m sad to be leaving,” said the High Commissioner.
Historically, the British colonial authority was the first to issue the first colours to then Nigerian Recruitment Training Centre, now Depot Nigerian Army located in Zaria, which was established on 1 August, 1924, under the command of Major Hassar, then a British Officer.
“In the past few days, I have observed various campaigns of calumny directed at my person, with the latest being allegations attributed to the Information Minister, Lai Mohammed from Washington DC,” he said.
Tiwa Savage to perform at King Charles III coronation concert
‘’In the past one week, I have only seen one new N500 note.
The DG appealed to those with the falsified product to “please DO NOT use it.”
The Senate also called on the CBN to allocate $25 million to airlines operating in Nigeria at its fortnightly dollar auction.
We will not allow this parliament to be hijacked.
The Independent and Corrupt Practices and other Related Offences Offences Commission is also investigating Ms Umar for alleged corruption.
“Reconciliation” not mentioned in Obi’s visit to me — Soyinka
Lassa Fever: Family alleges poor care at Lagos hospital
The VP recalled how President Muhammadu Buhari in 2016, established the council, to improve the business environment in the country.
Like Nigeria however, Sudan is ridden with corruption.
Your Majesty King Charles III,
The president of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Yakubu Maikyau, quoted in the IBA’s statement, lauded the project which birthed the report as “an innovative and unprecedented project through which the legal profession looks inwards”.
This followed the adoption of the report of Senate Committee on National Planning and Economic Affairs at plenary on Wednesday.
He was one of the four Nigerians to pass the Cambridge University Law examination with honours.
“We have some buses that have departed from the African International University in Khartoum, Sudan and as I speak, I think they are just about two hours away from Aswan in Cairo,” Mrs Dabiri-Erewa said Thursday.
Last Saturday, INEC concluded the 2023 General Elections with supplementary polls in areas where elections were declared inconclusive or postponed.
Celebrating a Star’s seventy trips round the Sun
He shouldn’t have come into this so quickly,” Mr Ubah said.
There is no better way to start reconstructing the South-east if we don’t have a voice.
In an affidavit deposed to by Adebayo Anafowode, a lawyer, the deponent expressed concerns over any delay in determining the suit before 29 May as its purpose would have been defeated.
“I wish to extend my gratitude and appreciation to all who have tirelessly supported my candidacy for the speakership position of the 10th assembly.
This is an unworkable arrangement that reinforces injustice and enhances inequity; and I join them in rejecting this zoning formula.
They will be guided by the norms and the ethics of that process, and to ensure that the right persons are brought on board and that each geopolitical zone gets their rights and fair share of leadership.
Mr Obahiagbon congratulated party leaders and members for the peaceful primary election.
The group had claimed that Mr Emeh, an information technology consultant to the police in the state, was arrested in Benin Republic because he acted as a “whistle blower” who revealed details of the offences allegedly committed by the three high-ranking officers accused of extortion and extra-judicial killings in the state.
And under your leadership, the NEC has been very regular and effective.
10.30am: Panel went on a break.
Adamawa: IGP orders removal of police commissioner
Also, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa commended the NEPZA boss for his commitment and support towards realising the licence for the project, while calling for more collaboration.
” It would be recalled that JAMB had earlier conducted its 2023 Mock-UTME on Thursday, March 30 in 725 centres across the country.
The panel, led by Justice Haruna Tsammani, adjourned after parties submitted on their meeting promised on 10 May on exchange processes, responses and harmonisation.
He said, “We are new members-elect from different political parties and irrespective of our party affiliations we have resolved to support Muktar Betara Aliyu.
“For decades, we were told that because of various vested interests, it would be nearly impossible to pass the bill but we made it happen," Mr Buhari said.
Even my own deceased Father who passed on long ago still has his name displayed on the board.
He said the government is responsible for increasing funding for malaria intervention through primary healthcare approaches so that malaria services are accessed by the most vulnerable.
The Peoples Democratic Party Governors’ Forum (PDP-GF) says it plans to organise a reception for governors-elect on the party’s platform on Thursday.
If they have a grouse against Governor Uzodinma, that should be taken to Imo State,” the company stated.
Mr Akuneme said Nigeria had extensive borders, adding that it was necessary to deploy manpower and technology.
The statement noted that Yusuf Emmanuel of the Department of Social Science Education was appointed the Deputy Dean, Faculty of Education.
“The former Nigeria’s Minister of Justice and leader of the Bar was an eminent statesman and legal icon whose contributions to national progress and development will be written in gold.
In Ugbodo village hall and Olua playground, INEC Officials were present but voter turnout was low.
Mr Kanu is challenging the stay of execution order stopping his release from the SSS custody.
The singer was granted bail in the sum of one million Naira “with two responsible sureties, a three years tax payment receipt that is verifiable; one of the sureties must have a landed property within the court jurisdiction.
Dr Charles Mekunye, SAN – ALTERNATE CHAIRMAN
He said the increase in the number of electricity defaulters led to the disconnection of Electricity Distribution Companies (DISCOs) in Kaduna and Kano states from the National grid recently .
“The cash crisis acted to dampen confidence in the private sector in March, with sentiment the second-lowest in the series history,” the survey stated.
Aminu Zuni was appointed Deputy Director, General Studies, and Abdulkadir Abubakar, Examinations Officer, General Studies (effective November 2, 2022).
He defeated his closest rival, Aisha Dahiru, popularly called Binani, of the All Progressives Congress (APC), who came second in the poll with 6,513 votes.
“Knowing full well that election matters are time-bound; let us avoid unnecessary time wasting applications.”
Speaking about his wife, Mr Nnamani said he spoke with her on the same day she died.
The party, in its preliminary objection equally filed on Sunday, argued that “the petitioner (APM) alone in the absence of its sponsored candidate cannot benefit and did not have any special interest in the election or return of the 3rd respondent (Tinubu) as the winner of the election.
“The Bill as passed by the two chambers of the National Assembly is solely sponsored by the current Peace Corps of Nigeria under the headship of Prof. Dickson Akoh as the National Commandant,” he noted.
Mr Buhari said the Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy would support the Defence Headquarters in ensuring that the infrastructure available for rural telephony were fully deployed for the attainment of the project.
During the hearing, most likely to be one of the last she conducted before her elevation, Ms Bolaji-Yusuf was reported to have successfully calmed the war of nerves between opposing lawyers in the criminal case.
Abdullahi Umar 07NA attached to sector 8 STF sustained bullet injuries and is currently receiving treatment at the STF headquarters, Jos.
Under his visionary leadership, the FIRS in 2022 achieved an unprecedented revenue collection of N10.1 trillion, which is the highest tax collection ever made in the history of the country,” the citation further said.
Mr Ikenga, a deputy superintendent of police, said some police operatives later intercepted the gunmen in the two SUV vehicles alongside the abducted victim.
He, consequently, sought an application for the release of all documentary evidence and exhibits in the case to the prosecution, so as to save time and avoid delay
On Thursday evening, President Muhammadu Buhari sacked Saratu Umar as the Executive Secretary of the Nigeria Investment Promotion Commission (NIPC).
Mr Doguwa said he had gone through a lot of elections since 1992, but that of 2023 was exceptional.
Last December, the CBN introduced new N200, N500, and N1000 notes, leading to the withdrawal of the old notes from circulation.
Among those who were present at the meeting were a former Governor of Akwa Ibom State, Godswill Akpabio, Shuaib Salisu from Ogun State, Solomon Olamilekan from Lagos State and many others.
Sudan Crisis: Nigerian evacuees to start arriving Friday; 5,500 students expected
“The offence is the same; it is NIMASA- related.
Sponsor of the Peace Corps of Nigeria Bill, Ali Ndume, has condemned the illegal establishment and operation of corps by some persons he did not name.
The position of law in Nigeria (and similar to all civilized democracies of the world, including Canada and the US), is that: any individual or political party that intends to challenge or question the result of an election must ensure the petition is established on a valid ground or reason recognized by law.
The South-south had 2.85 million and the South-east 2.2 million votes.
You will either rise together or fall alone.
Under the newly introduced taxes, the federal government will charge N75 per litre of beer, stout or wine imported into Nigeria
Mr Benjamin said the extension was to allow candidates with Cambridge A’Level results to verify their certificates during registration and to accommodate other applicants more time to register.
Nigerian stocks were modestly up by 0.12 per cent last week, taking the return on equities for the year to 2.4 per cent.
They also accused the President-elect, Bola Tinubu, of attempting to marginalise people of the South-east.
“The committee needs to go through the documents,” he said, adding that it would get back to NCC on another date that would be communicated to them.
Rest on Warrior!”
Documents obtained from the UK property register revealed that in July 2013, the property with title number 340992, was bought for £11.95 million by Zavlil Holdings Ltd, a shell company incorporated in the British Virgin Islands, a notorious tax haven.
He revealed that the crime was punishable under the Trafficking in Persons (Prohibition) Enforcement and Administration Act, 2015 (as re-enacted).
She mentioned the building of an automated police personnel database and conduct of a verification exercise on police personnel.
He added that Nigerians needed leaders who can serve and lead without preferential treatment of groups or individuals to the detriment of others under their care.
“Similarly, on April 23, troops intercepted three terrorist logistics suppliers with one vehicle, and one canter truck loaded with 87 bags of rice at Gusami and Mada villages in Birnin Magaji and Gusau Local Government Areas of Zamfara.
Other world leaders who have congratulated Mr Tinubu since he was announced the winner of the presidential election on 1 March include President Xi Jinping of China, British Prime Minister Rishi Sunak, President Emmanuel Macron of France and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel.
Datti-Ahmed: SERAP, CJID sue Buhari, others over ‘unlawful N5m fine on Channels TV’
Mr Massaquoi and his lawyers have repeatedly denied both fronts of the charges.
The judge, Inyang Ekwo, said in his ruling that Mr Mamu’s grounds of ill-health were not cogent enough to grant bail to the defendant facing terrorism-related charges.
Otedola raises stake in Transcorp to 6.3% with additional share purchase
While the government is trying to resolve the challenges in Egypt, it is set to commence the second phase of the evacuation, the Nigerian embassy in Sudan has announced.
“His ‘brother’ who he tried to use as an alibi, was nowhere to be found to give evidence before this court.
Labour Party Presidential Candidate, Peter Obi [PHOTO: TW @PeterObi]“To our Muslim brothers and sisters who are well into the Ramadan fasting period, which will culminate in the Eid-El-Fitr, my special greetings and prayers are with you as we look forward to a joyous celebration.
Will get a copy of the invite and send,” one such insider said.
“The process of transitioning into a new era of a Renewed Hope is underway and all our energies and activities must reflect the principles underlying this process.
The APC has zoned the positions of speaker and deputy senate president to the North-west.
The theme of the WHD 2023 is “Health for All – Strengthening PHC to Build Resilient Systems,”.
Mr Festus said the “arrest and investigations of individuals suspected to be connected with the assault of the deceased are being made for consequent legal actions.”
Fifty-seven of the Chibok schoolgirls reportedly escaped immediately after the incident by jumping from the trucks conveying them, and others have been rescued on several occasions by the Nigerian Armed Forces.
The Director-General of the DMO, Patience Oniha, said this to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Sunday in Abuja.
The letter also called for collaboration between NSCIA and CAN to unite to “admonish and discourage our Pastors and Imams, from desecrating their pulpits with political partisanship and hate speech.”
The certificate for the Adamawa State Governor, Ahmadu Fintiri and Deputy Governor-elect will be presented later today, the commission said in a statement.
Dikko did not respond to a request for comment.
The company trades its shares over the counter at Lagos NASD OTC Securities Exchange, where they are quoted at N71.50 per unit and a market capitalisation of N139.6 billion at market close on Tuesday.
In a trending video, a woman identified as Omolara James narrated how Mr Eddy and his boys allegedly slapped her and tried to touch her breast in public.
Everyone unanimously believes that North-west is the rightful place for the speakership,” he added.
The medical facility remains committed to providing accessible, well-equipped, and rejuvenated healthcare services, catering to the diverse needs of patients through a range of comprehensive medical treatments.
Six persons have died in an accident on Tuesday involving a truck and Sienna vehicle along Calabar-Ogoja Highway in Cross River State, South-south Nigeria.
The Federal High Court (FHC) will on Thursday mark 50 years of justice delivery in the Nigerian judicial system.
He said once there is a conflict between the law of a state and that of the National Assembly, the law of the state is suspended.
“However, the two members of one of the sister security agency were handed over to their agency for further necessary action.
One of the politicians she named was late elder statesman, Ismaila Isa Funtua who she claimed accused Amaechi of not consulting him before she was appointed.
The nation’s collective curiosity was also evident in the top trending questions, which ranged from ‘When is Easter 2023?’ and ‘When is WAEC 2023 starting?’ to ‘How to check my polling unit?’ and ‘Who is the President of Ni¹geria?’.
The president charged the governors to stick together and openly address issues among themselves.
“Today marks an important milestone for the manufacturing industry in Nigeria as we commission the first wholly indigenous onion and garlic flakes processing plant.
Justice Mohammed held that the EFCC failed to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt but the anti-corruption agency has appealed against the judgment.
The INEC by so doing, created room for that election to be rigged.
When contacted on phone, Mr Onifade said, “He experienced a delay at the airport because someone duplicated his details.
Also speaking, Olotu Yahaya, a guest lecturer from the Department of Agricultural Technology, Auchi Polytechnic, Edo said:” it is it important to educate and equip farmers with modern and climate smart agricultural practices, considering the effects of climate change on agriculture”.
We have tried to achieve the passage of these bills with an approach that looks like a fight between men and women, and it did not yield any result.
The minister made this known on Tuesday at the ongoing second edition of the National Animal Feed Summit organized by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (FMARD) and other relevant partners including the Centre for Journalism Innovation and Development (CJID), its sister organisation, PREMIUM TIMES, and Sahel Consulting Agriculture and Nutrition Limited in Abuja.
“Now is the time to take decisive action to deliver on our goal of zero malaria, spur overall development and achieve the 2030 targets”, he said.
It welcomes users to select a receipt from its “extensive collection of receipt templates.”
Stereotypes are cheap commodities for blackmail especially in states weakened by a corrupt political class.
Imeobi is the highest decision-making organ of the Ohanaeze, considered by many to be the top Igbo socio-cultural organisation in Nigeria.
Ohanaeze criticises Tinubu for not including Igbos in transition committee
Cost of sales spiked by 21.8 per cent or N60.4 billion in 2022, driving margin low and hurting gross profit.
Meanwhile, towards fostering stronger ties and business relationships with China, the Nigerian government through the Nigeria Export Promotion Council (NEPC) said it has launched the Export Trading House in China.
The lawyer who represented him in court, David Kaswe, gave no reason for the move.
Expectedly, they fell so terribly for the bait,” he wrote.
The next hearing for the case is scheduled for 4 December.
However, a Federal High Court in Abuja had on Friday ruled that the party could not investigate the former two-term governor without giving him the chance to defend himself.
Considering the pressure Cy occasioned by humanitarian crises in many countries, the mission impacts on the distribution of educational materials, food supplements, and nutritional food items aimed at supporting their efforts particularly as they affect women, children and other vulnerable groups in the society”, she said.
Musa Abdullahi Lawan (AG Kano) – ALTERNATE CHAIRMAN
We have a lot of talents in that market😅,” he wrote.
“All the presidential candidates of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) were screened on 29th April, 2022, an exercise in which the 1st petitioner herein participated and was cleared to contest while being a member of the party.
Nigeria’s gas infrastructure can transport 6.9bn bcf for power generation – NNPCL
“There is a need for the leadership of the National Assembly, Civil Society Organisations, Independent Corrupt Practices Commission, (ICPC) Bureau of Public Enterprises, (BPE), and Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, (EFCC) to quickly intervene and order immediate reversal of the process in the interest of over 200 million Nigerians.
Reps move to stop migration of Nigerian-trained doctors
“It is sad that the life of civil service in the state is near collapse, it’s in the ICU, so I just need to get in there and infuse life in it and keep it moving.
He appealed to other aspirants contesting against Messrs Akpabio and Jibrin to step down from the race, noting that their withdrawal will contribute to the peaceful and smooth running of the incoming administration.
He said that INEC was also deploying most of its staff as supervisory presiding officers and registration area collation officers.
The NSCIA in a statement through its Director of administration, Zubairu Usman-Ugwu, said the council beseeched Allah to grant everyone the opportunity to witness many more of the Sallah celebration.
“When we do the zoning meeting, we don’t just go alone as a party, zoning is to take along the person who has the mandate of this country, the President-elect, Sen. Bola Tinibu.
Presidential spokesperson Femi Adesina disclosed the sack of Saratu Umar on Thursday.
For instance, the current amendment exercise contains three Bills relating to the judiciary and the President assented to them all.
“On the whole, journalists must resist the temptation of being used to ridicule their noble profession, thereby reducing journalism to an unethical field, where quackery has a field day,” he said.
The Commission has since been inaugurated and is expected to command our respect.
Mr Soroh said Pfizer’s commitment to equity and continued investment in haemophilia is evident in its more than 30 years of experience in developing therapies for haematological disorders.
The UK, however, noted that changes to the red and amber country list may be made on an ad hoc basis as government-to-government agreements are signed, adding that “all agreements will take WHO guidance on the development of bilateral agreements into account.”
On 9 June 2022, the youngest presidential aspirant at the APC National Convention, Nicholas Felix, climbed the stage at Eagle Square, Abuja, and endorsed Vice President Yemi Osinbajo.
Suleiman Bilbis, a professor, and current vice-chancellor of Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto, was appointed its pioneer vice-chancellor.
The award honours Aristegui’s decades of fearless reporting on corruption in Mexico regardless of the government in power, and her unyielding commitment to critical journalism in the face of targeted efforts to silence her.
“The victims showed to the court, the level of damage to their bodies.’’
Currently armed with the re-energised AMCON Act, which President Muhammadu Buhari signed into law, and backed by strong judicial support, the Management of AMCON led by Ahmed Kuru, Managing Director/CEO had since switched its recovery strategy to enforcement mode as a result of obligor’s antics of hiding under some technicalities of the law to evade repayment.
I don’t believe that.
The Ooni of Ile-Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, on Tuesday played host to some Americans, who traced their root to the Kingdom of Ile-Ife.
One of America’s favorite fall traditions is the World Series, which is a yearly event that involves Major League Baseball.
Vice President Osinbajo and his wife Dolapo arrived at the venue at about 4.57 p.m.
B. Odogu, respectively, faulted the competence of the suit and asked the court to dismiss it.
On the second batch who are scheduled to be evacuated from Sudan today, 29 buses are expected to convey them to the same location (Egypt).
“Peter Obi, who are you?
It was Mr Wali’s second abduction in less than a decade.
He alleged over-voting and violation of the Electoral Act.
That is what is wasting taxpayers’ money.
The alleged offence is said to be in violation of Section 366 of the Penal Code Law.
As mentioned above, the judiciary thwarted it.
Binani, through her lawyer, Hussaini Zakariyau, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria, sought a judicial review of the administrative decision of INEC on 16 April in respect of her declaration as the winner of the governorship election held on 18 March and the supplementary poll of 15 April.
“They are trying to woo some crisis, but we wait and see.
In August 2021, Unilever said during an investors’ call it resorted to buying the dollar at 9 per cent above the market rate on account of a scarcity of the greenback in the country.
His trial on charges of treasonable felony and terrorism started after his arrest over his separatist activities in 2015.
The Police Command in Adamawa has arrested a 70-year-old man, Usman Ibrahim, for allegedly raping two minors in Yola-North Local Government Area.
Nigerian politician and entrepreneur, Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu, has emerged as the new president-general of the apex Igbo socio-cultural organisation, Ohanaeze Ndigbo.
This now coopted watchword of his formulation remains apt, applicable to all who strive for authentic social transformation: Your mumu don do!
Ms Adichie stated that Soyinka’s description of Mr Baba-Ahmed’s comment as fascist was a strong word that is only appropriate for the government of the day and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), gagging the will of the majority of Nigerians through a fraudulent election.
They include Sani Musa (APC, Niger), Governor Dave Umahi (APC, Ebonyi), Whip of the Senate, Orji Kalu (APC, Abia), Abdulaziz Yari (APC, Zamfara) and Barau Jibrin (APC, Kano).
APC suspends chairman over alleged anti-party activities
He also featured Oritsefemi, Dude Tetsola and Cashson in ‘Stop the Violence’; in ‘Nana Dance’, he featured Dammy Krane.
“The gentlest and most noble Nollywood actor I ever met.
The prosecution counsel, said that the defendants got the firearm from Insp.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that farmers were shown practical demonstration of how to use simple and cost effective methods to improve their farm produce.
Out of this number, 14 people got injured (four male adults, five female adults, two male children and three female children).
Mr Ani said those severely reprimanded were an Assistant Commissioner of Police, a Chief Superintendent of Police, four Superintendents, two Deputy Superintendents and 12 Assistant Superintendents.
The ruling APC, which will also form majority in 10th Senate and House billed to be inaugurated on 13 June, has yet to zone the four positions.
He said the joint operations by security operatives in the state followed tips from residents of the state about the activities of the suspected criminals.
According to the minister, the categories of the citizenship granted to the applicants are by naturalisation and by registration.
The minority coalition may have to pick from incumbent Deputy Speaker Idris Wase (Plateau), Yusuf Gagdi (Plateau), Sada Soli (Katsina), Muktar Betara (Borno) Tunji Olawuyi (Kwara), Abubakar Makki (Jigawa), Aminu Jaji (APC, Zamfara), Ado Doguwa (Kano), and Miriam Onuoha (Imo).
It also shows that the attack was well planned by the bandits because the monarch was monitored before the abduction.
This leaves the spread between the official and unofficial market at N277.40 with a margin of N59.88 per cent at the close of business on Tuesday.
“(Mr) Jibrin is not only an experienced parliamentarian having been elected for a third term but also a seasoned administrator, a quality he has shown as Chairman of the Senate Committee on Appropriations.
The United Kingdom Minister For Armed Forces, James Heappey, on Tuesday, said Britain is committed to improving intelligence sharing with Nigeria and other countries to tackle terrorism and piracy in the Lake Chad Basin and the Gulf of Guinea.
A little homework and they would know what is manifestly obvious to me and so many others: The process was imperiled not by technical shortcomings but by deliberate manipulation,” she stated.
14-year-old student killed, many missing as flood sweeps Ogun community
Some human rights activists who promised to help the family get justice have defrauded them, Mr Victor, the landlord, told PREMIUM TIMES.
The House also directed the committee to immediately commence investigations into the Cabotage Vessel Finance Fund to determine all monies that have accrued to the Fund since its establishment in the year 2003, and report to the House within 14 days.
He is, however, challenging Mr Tinubu’s election as president-elect.
I don’t know who the fellow he says is the chapter chairman of the APC in Ikot Abasi.
He pledged that the government would support the full actualisation of other features of the project to ensure professional and vibrant armed forces with the capacity to protect the territorial integrity of the country.
Mr Zelensky‘s invitation was contained in a congratulatory statement he personally signed.
The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Rivers State on Tuesday said it would “without preferences or bias” grant access to all applicants seeking inspection of materials used for the conduct of the just concluded general elections.
Tinubu departs Nigeria Wednesday for Europe on working visit
Those who canvass Sudan as the place to go for foreign education argue on the basis of its affordability.
Again, court postpones trial of gun-weilding Abuja pastor, two others
In another basis for challenging the petition, the APC queried why Mr Obi and his party excluded the PDP and its presidential flagbearer, Atiku, from the suit.
He said he was in the state in line with the promise he made during the campaigns in Rivers, saying “If you make a promise, you keep it.
He urged all NBA members to study the report, learn from the data contained in it, “and become champions of the change we want to see in our nation.”
Mr Abubakar also appreciated Osun Govenor, Ademola Adeleke, whom he said also showed interest in supporting the corps in achieving its set mandate.
“We need sanity within Afenifere.
“In the process, the vehicle initially slowed down in compliance with the directive before eventually picking up speed and dashing off to evade the officers on duty.
Currently, the mandatory retirement age of the Court of Appeal and the Supreme Court justices is 70.
The governor also repeated his earlier accusation that some unnamed members of opposition political parties, whom he described as enemies of his government, were behind the rising insecurity in the state.
[PHOTO CREDIT: Energy Mix Report]Tinubu was succeeded by Babatunde Fashola, who previously served as his chief of staff.
We are going to agree to support one of us as speaker,” he said.
He noted that spellers were actively engaged in learning communication and public speaking skills, as well as building their self-esteem.
“The potential gains are highest for people who move from low- to high-income countries.
Altogether, 1.3 billion shares estimated at N7 billion were traded in 5,963 deals.
Born on 26 August 1936 in Idua Eket, Eket Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State, the departed cleric was a man of many firsts.
NCDC added that one new healthcare worker was affected in the reporting week 13.
The minister said, “This is taking into consideration that not a single incidence of death of a journalist has been recorded in Nigeria arising from infractions, relating thereto.”
Specifically, Mr Njoku had asked the Supreme Court to correct an “accidental slip” at page 13, lines 3 to 4 of its judgment which had Victor Oye’s name mistakenly inserted as the national chairman of APGA instead of ‘Edozie Njoku’.
The president thanked the Nigerian Army, the director-general of the NYSC, and various private and public institutions for providing the enabling environment for the scheme’s success.
The President-elect said: “I congratulate the Nigerian, Harvard University Professor, Jacob Olupona, for his outstanding academic achievement.
The group stated this at a press conference in Abuja on Monday.
“The suit is in relation to the immigration status of Mr. Roger Brown and the withdrawal of his immigration visa by the Ministry of Interior,” the oil driller said in the statement.
He signed and presented the allotment of shares of Aranda Resources Limited to Nigeria’s corporate registry in December 2001.
While urging the NBA to sanction bad behaviour, the group in the letter also advocated a reward for good behaviour for legal practitioners in public service to encourage good conduct.
Ukraine was connected to the grid shortly before the war began.
The book which was unveiled in Abuja on Thursday comes less than three weeks to the end of the Buhari eight-year regime.
In his remarks, Mr Abubakar thanked the Ooni for his support and show of love.
The 71-year-old is widely seen as Nigeria’s political kingmaker for his role in the elections of several governors in the country’s southwest region, as well as the election of Buhari, who defeated the incumbent in 2015.
In November 2022, Lauretta Onochie was appointed the chairman of the board of the NDDC and a board was constituted.
Father, please guide our transition to a new dawn.
Lagos Road Crash: FRSC urges routine vehicle maintenance
The governor-elect on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), commended Mr Buhari for making a firm decision for the elections to take place.
They are also expected to present two (2) recent passport photographs, a printout of one-month bank statement and BVN, original and photocopy of any means of identification (NIN Card/Slip, Driver’s License, Voter Card, International Passport).
In the grounds of the petition, the petitioner said Mr Tinubu “engaged in monumental vote-buying and openly offered money and other gift items to voters in polling units spread across Kano, Kaduna, Imo, Rivers, Kebbi, Oyo, Ogun, Ekiti, Osun, Kogi and Kwara states.”
Meanwhile, Mr Ikpeazu was a member of G-5, a group of five aggrieved PDP governors, opposed to the party’s presidential candidate, Atiku, and its then national leadership.
Mr Osinbajo spoke in a shaky voice as he eulogised the deceased whom he was very close to having worked under him in the 80s.
Judge didn’t order retrial of Fani-Kayode in Abuja court, lawyer clarifies
Kaduna is in the larger part of North-west Nigeria where terrorists target public schools for kidnapping for ransom.
“Therefore, ceding the speakership position to the zone has shown that Tinubu and his team truly believe in a reward system that encourages hard work, capacity and loyalty.
“The use of NBC Act and Code in this case would inadmissibly open the door to arbitrariness and would fundamentally restrict the freedom of expression that is an integral part of the public order protected by the Nigerian Constitution and human rights treaties to which Nigeria is a state party.”
The final arguments of this marathon trial will begin January 5th.
On Sunday, about 13 houses within Ajao Estate and Shasha axis of Lagos were demolished by the Lagos State Building Control Agency (LSBCA) and FAAN over alleged “encroachment”.
At the same time, India’s current fertility rate – two births per woman – is just below the replacement threshold of 2.1, the level required for population stabilisation in the long run in the absence of migration, says the UN report.
He said the state government was coordinating rescue efforts to recover the boy.
He urged them to rededicate themselves to the service of their respective constituents.
"To be clear, APC is not responsible for Mr Abure’s travails.
The Catholic Church leader defended the late pope on Sunday before the faithful in St. Peter’s Square in Rome.
At the venue, the former Speaker, Kennedy Njoku, had moved the motion for the speaker’s removal and was seconded by Chijioke Chukwu.
Meanwhile, the management of the school has denied that it seeks exhumation of the remains of the deceased already buried.
“From there we moved on to support Femi to become the speaker.
An initial 24-hour ceasefire, announced for 6 p.m., local time, on Tuesday, collapsed within minutes of the deadline.
“I assure you, we will continue to prioritise workers welfare and also create a friendly environment for collective growth.
“The feed sector has the potential to engage over 20 million Nigerians, as the industry is yet to reach 25 per cent of its market size,” he said.
In the announcement, the chairperson of the development agency, Josef Onoh, explained that the decision to demolish the properties was due to “alterations by some illegal developers” who violated the original master plan of the estate.
“Distinguished Senator, over the last 32 years, I have remained committed to the good cause of the Nigerian project.
Mr Tinubu won four of the six states in the South-west and was the only candidate to cross the 25 per cent threshold in all six.
The Court was forced to change its original plan of traveling to Sierra Leone, because the government there didn’t approve the trip.
Atiku in a joint petition with the PDP is challenging Mr Tinubu’s victory on, among other grounds, that the former Lagos State governor failed to secure the statutory 25 per cent of votes cast in two-thirds (24 states) and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT).
He added that multiple taxes and levies are already being imposed on the industry players.
“Whatever we consume affects our health and to that extent, we must maintain the normal standard regardless of the countries of export,” the official said.
"When I tell people how difficult it is to develop Africa, you now understand what it means."
The court, which had grown structurally over the years, presently has divisions in all the states of the federation, including Abuja, where its headquarters is located.
“(It) was a treacherous attack on the worshipers of Margis Church in the Al-Masalma neighborhood of Omdurman and they fired indiscriminately at the worshipers, wounding three of them with bullets.
INEC announced 15 April for the conduct of the supplementary elections in all of the constituencies.
He is a Professor of Practice of Public Health Leadership in the Department of Global Health and Population at Harvard University and a former Director of the Global Financing Facility for Women, Children and Adolescents at the World Bank.
Commenting on Mr Kolade’s project, Sulleiman Adediran, a retired university don and now development consultant, said the “landmark” initiative is a response to the need of society.
The presidency in a statement on Wednesday by Garba Shehu, the president’s media aide, absolved Mr Buhari from the killings in Benue State, saying Mr Ortom had politicised the issue.
“Argentina completed the first sale to Nigeria of a radar for civil use built by INVAP SE, which landed today in Abuja, the capital of Nigeria, and will be used for air traffic control in the African country…"
Gov Diri of Bayelsa picks PDP ticket to seek second tenure
But, angry about what, angry with whom and justice for whom?
One of the most popular sports in the world is soccer, which is why the Champions League Final is held every year.
The distraught parents began searching for their children, the next day, after reporting the incident to the community’s vigilante group.
Senate urges CBN to release $717.5 million trapped airlines’ funds
They are the ncumbent Deputy Speaker Idris Wase (Plateau) Yusuf Gagdi (Plateau) Sada Soli (Katsina), Muktar Betara (Borno) Tunji Olawuyi (Kwara), Abubakar Makki (Jigawa), Aminu Jaji (APC, Zamfara), Ben Kalu (Abia), Ado Doguwa (Kano) and Miriam Onuoha (Imo).
In addition, it directed the committee to engage an external auditor to audit all contracts that have been entered into in the Cabotage regime and report to the House within 14 days.
The opposition has promised to return the country to parliamentary democracy if it emerges as the presidential and parliamentary elections winner.
This particular illegal action of NLC and TUC will lead to over N700 million loss to the airline,” the company said in the statement.
Afrobeat singer, Seun Kuti has appeared at the Ikeja police command on Monday following a video footage showing him assaulting a police officer on duty.
NAPTIP arrests suspects in Abuja over sextortion
The country maintained fourth position in 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021, 2022 and 2023.
The Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, disclosed this Wednesday after the council meeting.
The aviation ministry in its statement noted that the planned demolition of certain buildings obstructing the runway is in the public interest and an administrative issue that can be sorted in-house.
“The establishment of Enterprise Republic, which has been years in the works, is our modest effort to tackle the menace of youth unemployment and underemployment, and the various problems associated with it,” said Seun Kolade, a Nigerian professor in the United Kingdom.
PREMIUM TIMES gathered that the Oyo State Government in August directed the Atiba Local Government secretariat, the custodian of the Palace of the Alaafin, to begin the formal administrative process for the selection of the next Alaafin.
He recalled that the Federal Republic of Nigeria in Notice No.
He added that zoning required very exhaustive consultation not just of the party’s leadership, but also of those who were aspiring.
"Couple of hours after we opened the polls, I received a call that BVAS machines were snatched."
He also agreed to forfeit an astounding wealth of posh assets he owned in Dubai, the United Arab Emirates (UAE), to the United States government.
However, Mr Abure said he did not witness the incident because he was out of town.
“And one thing they don’t understand is that third parties don’t have an idea of the information entered into your application.
In his opening remarks, the Speaker of the House, Femi Gbajabiamila, stated that the hearing is not designed to witch-hunt anyone, but to end the corruption in the oil sector.
“But unfortunately, for there to be a reasonable ground for suspicion, at least, you require certain basic facts,” he said.
PREMIUM TIMES reported how some Nigerian students studying in Sudan appealed to the Nigerian government for help.
At the official @cenbank exchange rate, each truck cost almost $2.4 million?
FRSC officer caught on video slapping motorist
The police in Plateau said the tanker explosion that occurred at Bauchi Road junction in Jos North Local Government Area claimed the lives of 13 persons and destroyed 28 shops.
The suspect, Onuabuchi Agbo, also allegedly buried the victim, Peter Ukekwe, in a shallow grave on 1 April in Amori, a community in Nkanu West Local Government Area of the state.
It is not a military dictatorship.
Therefore, the penalty stands.”
Others are the Attorney-General and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, some heads of para-military organisations and other Muslim faithful.
He then said to me, pointing behind him at a few shrivelled-up books on a small bookshelf, that he had the arsenal to destroy any tenant in court if I gave him any trouble.
But contesting on three separate platforms against the ruling party as they did, the victory of the APC was logically and empirically inevitable.
NAN reports that the police alleged that the defendants, all of House on the Rock Refuge Church, Wuye, Abuja, conspired with an illegal possession of an AK-47 rifle on 12 February.
“To the Youth of Nigeria: I salute your energy and courage.
“No evidence was adduced to prove the case of forgery against Adeleke.
Justifying its declaration of Mr Tinubu as the president-elect, the electoral umpire said by scoring 25 per cent of the valid votes cast in 29 states, Mr Tinubu “has satisfied the requirement of the constitution to be declared winner of the presidential election thus rendering the requirement of having 25 per cent of the valid votes cast in Federal Capital Territory unnecessary.”
He is also standing trial on charges of diversion of funds meant for procurement of arms.
GeoLab is a laboratory in FUTA’s Department of Meteorology and Climate Science, School of Earth and Mineral Science.
Others are: The airports in Owerri, Imo, Benin, Edo, Enugu, Enugu State, Maiduguri, Borno, Yola, Adamawa and Calabar.
The statement from Ms Akoria said, “NAFDAC has issued a warning that the Taiwan Food and Drug Administration had ordered the recall of two batches of six million Norvasc 5 mg tablets.
Health systems can only function with health workers; improving health service coverage and realising the right to the enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of health is dependent on their availability, accessibility, acceptability, and quality.
She lamented that thousands of girls dropped out of school because of poverty, saying AGILE is a veritable opportunity for girls of poor backgrounds to climb the ladder of education without encumbrances.
That takes his entire holding in Transcorp to 6.3 per cent or 2.6 billion shares.
A Federal High Court in Port-Harcourt, Rivers State, in 2019, sentenced three persons to seven- and five years imprisonment for child trafficking.
Mr Ogenyi said that their support was based on consideration of federal character in the zoning of the 10th senate leadership bearing in mind, competence and credibility with an understanding that the country is a secular state.
The appellate court had on 13 October 2022 ordered the IPOB leader’s release, having dismissed the remaining six-count charge levelled against him by the federal government.
“When President Goodluck Jonathan lost grip of the National Assembly when Rt.
Let the people living within those areas know that if you remove one cable you’ve rendered the whole community in darkness.
Kola Aluko and his associate, Jide Omokore, were indicted in the US and Nigeria for multi-million-dollar fraud and money laundering violations allegedly in collusion with a former Minister of Petroleum Resources, Diezani Alison-Madueke.
The Commissioner of Police in the state, Echeng Echeng, disclosed this on Wednesday during a press conference in Awka, the state capital.
The National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), Minna Operation Office, has alerted Kwara residents of an impending flood this year.
He noted that the immediate risk is that the domestic wine market would be taken over by imported and mostly smuggled wine.
Ecobank Transnational Incorporated appears on the list for currently trading well below its intrinsic value, which makes it cheap for investment.
However, the inconsistency extended to questions asked with only minutes in between during his oral evidence.
“At times, I buy books just to show solidarity with authors.
For Sokoto State, Mr Uzoukwu said the INEC officials demanded N1.5 million fee to process the documents.
Ebube Eddy, popularly known as Bebex, 37, is facing a three-count charge of attempt to breach peace, indecent assault and assault by slapping.
I told him what sort of rubbish is that and I insulted him.
Mr Buhari was elected into office on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) after defeating then-incumbent President Goodluck Jonathan of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).
"The Senate President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria will come from the South-south and no other person than the former governor of Akwa Ibom , the uncommon governor, the uncommon minister who will be the uncommon president of the Senate."
With both the family and Chrisland school’s counsel aligned on this position, the Court therefore directed that the consultation by the independent forensic pathologist be carried out within Lagos State and the Pathologist of the deceased’s family granted access as an observer during the exercise.”
The judge, James Omotosho, who struck out the sections in a judgment, held that sections 839, 842, 843, 844, 845, 846, 847, and 848 of CAMA were inconsistent with the provisions of the Nigerian constitution.
The NBA president says this in commemoration of the 2023 International Workers’ Day.
“This illegality is not only distasteful but pure wickedness on the part of leaders.
In swaying the court to strike down the infringing provisions of the law, Mr Ekpenyong argued that the CAMA 2020 violated his rights as a Nigerian citizen.
NNPP had asked the tribunal to void the Ogun governorship poll over the omission of its name on the ballot paper.
“Equally, more than 8,000 Nigerians were employed in rural roads construction under the Rural Roads programme which built 40 rural roads in 120 communities, covering about 57.3 km across the country.’’
Total votes in Jigawa was 954,805; Bauchi 882,546, Oyo 851,956, Niger 813,355, and Benue 797,762.
Same question was asked when it was discovered that Nigerian students were trapped in Ukraine, a Third World country like Nigeria, at the beginning of its internecine war with Russia.
Mr Lawan noted that he had personally sent a letter to the UK government seeking clemency for Mr Ekweremadu on the organ trafficking offence he is found guilty of.
“If in both the South-east and the South-south, I think the question should be obvious.
The commission declared that Atiku came second with 6,984,520 votes, while it announced Labour Party’s Peter Obi as the second runner-up with 6,101,533 votes.
Let me clarify: I know the entity known as Peter Obi, the presidential candidate of the Labour Party.
"The Transition Committee members would also streamline the State development plan in line with my 'Social Charter' with Ndi Enugu."
We need to unite to ensure that it is realised.
The Eaglets showed great tenacity in their final group game on Saturday as they came from behind twice before beating South Africa 3-2 in an entertaining clash at the Stade Mohamed-Hamlaou.
The chairman added that management was working in conjunction with the National Institute for Legislative and Democratic Studies (NILDS) to train members-elect on legislative functions ahead of the imagination.
The governor-elect said the deceased was a political associate and patriot who gave his best in service of the state and the country at large.
He said the vulnerability of the Anambra environment had made it imperative to save and protect it through a proactive and sustainable management system.
*Six (6) gold neck chains
It stated that contrary to AA’s claim, Mr Tinubu “was duly elected and returned as the President-elect of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, having won the majority of lawful votes cast in the said election devoid of corrupt practices or vices and in substantial compliance with the provisions of Electoral Act 2022 (as amended).”
“Currencies should be allowed to adjust to changing fundamentals, but deploying capital flow management policies on outflows may be warranted in crisis or imminent crisis circumstances, without substituting for needed macroeconomic policy adjustment.
The emergence of third-force candidates also led to the proliferation of identity-based cross-party endorsements and alliances.
“They called him Mr. Peace.
It was the last to start, so it cannot finish at the same time.
Our legal team have been instructed to take appropriate legal actions against Peoples Gazette and others.”
Mr Victor told this newspaper that Mr Asadu, one of the arrested suspects, was not in Igbo-Ukwu when the three vigilante operatives were shot dead in the community.
“On a year-on-year basis, customer numbers in Q4 2022 rose by 5.17 per cent from Q4 2021 (10.51 million).
The brewer, which grew property, plant and equipment by about 40 per cent or N101.8 billion last year, committed a huge investment to the extension of Ama plant, the biggest of its nine factories.
The doctors said the government is yet to meet their demands.
Mr Lagbaja, who was represented by the Commandant of MLAILPKC, Emmanuel Undiandeye, said the training was aimed at refreshing and polishing the knowledge and expertise of the troops in peace support operations.
The bill seeks to extend the retirement age of High Court judges from 65 to 70 years.
Two candidates who seek to hold the third and fourth-highest offices in Nigeria are rumoured to be planning to bribe their fellow lawmakers with as much as $1 million each to get elected, officials have said.
01:00pm: Court adjourns Peter Obi’s petition until Wednesday, 10 May.
The Nigerian Immigration Service (NIS) says the agency is engaging traditional rulers in various states to curb transborder crimes nationwide.
• Adaramodu Adeyemi Raphael – Ekiti South
“The essential elements of the ACJA 2015 focused on the abolition of stay of proceedings; effective case management by trial courts; witness protection, and sentencing guidelines among others.
The singer will face trial after the completion of the police investigation.
“Thus, albeit in a different vein, any notion of Reconciliation, or even relations – positive, negative or indifferent – with such a spectral emanation is simply grasping at empty air.”
At least 300 people have died in the fighting and almost 3,200 more have been wounded in Khartoum, the western region of Darfur and other states, Ahmed Al-Mandhari of the World Health Organisation says.
“Televising court proceedings is not alien to this court, and will enhance public confidence.”
Audio Leak: NCC denies allegations of phone tracking
“We don’t know if he was a cultist, we don’t know what happened.
Sources confirmed that the letter of suspension was signed by the education ministry’s Permanent Secretary, Andrew Adejoh.
The ministries further advised the public to discountenance unverified information being circulated on social media as some of it is either due to ignorance or sheer mischief.
The Ekiti State Government distributed 2,600 laptops to 100 secondary schools on Tuesday to aid learning and development of skills.
SERAP last Friday moved to enforce the judgment by filing Form 48 contempt suit at the Federal High Court, Lagos.
The agency advised the public to be cautious and stay in-door especially during heavy rainfall to avoid being struck by lightning.
He prayed to Almighty Allah to “accept our worship in the month of Ramadan.”
Born in Osun State, the actor and producer hails from Oroki Asala in Osogbo.
Inside Nigeria’s $800m World Bank Loan for Palliative
Nigeria’s first Lady, Aisha Buhari, on Monday called “for all hands to be deck” to prevent the escalation of the crisis in Sudan.
This newspaper had on Thursday reported the case in the state as confirmed in a nursing mother who was transferred from a private health facility in Ondo State to another private facility in Surulere, Lagos.
The doctors, amongst other issues, also demanded the immediate payment of the 2023 Medical Residency Training Fund (MRTF) and threatened to embark on an indefinite strike within two weeks if their demands were unmet.
Nonetheless, the Golden Eaglets held on to their one-goal advantage, securing a thrilling 3-2 victory that has taken them closer to their first target of qualifying for the U-17 World Cup.
Mr Yari said the 10th Senate needs a “compassionate, honest and fair-minded” senate president and not the one that will be chosen based on “religion and ethnicity” sentiments.
Meanwhile, Mr Festus said while investigations into the immediate and remote causes of the violent action continue, the activities of the executive council of the concerned hall of residence have been “suspended immediately.”
Besides, he said where the custodian does not have the medical facility to take care of the medical condition of the defendant but is capable of ensuring that the defendant has access to a medical facility suitable for his medical condition, the court would not grant the bail.
The coordinator said beyond the UTME centre in Enugu, the examination body also has 10 other centres across the six other geopolitical zones of the country.
“The panel asked him (Agbazue), ‘who authorised the charging of the lady to court?
She got married in 1951 at the age 20 years to Bernard Ihedioha, who died in 1995.
Kaduna, like several other north-western States in the country and a part of the state north-central, has been witnessing series of terrorists activities for years leading to the deaths and displacement of people.
“Further investigation led to the arrest of one Umar Bello, 33, from Sokoto State but resides in Warri.
“ Today May 7, at about 10:30 a.m., operatives attached to 47 Police Mobile Force (PMF) deployed to Kaya on routine patrol along Fatika Road, sighted a gang of bandits riding on motorcycles, dressed in military camouflage.
On the 45 per cent iron and steel products import duty, the think tank said the country is currently contending with the high cost of construction of both public and private properties.
Mr Tinubu argued that none of these people and their parties were joined as a party on the petition.
He noted that the deliberation with other minority parties has been fruitful.
It is not just about balancing family life, social life; it is also about balancing your health.
UN Population Division has said India is about to surpass China as the world’s most populous nation in the coming days.
Mr Olanipekun gave the assurance that the lawyers would give their full support to the cause.
On the animosity that pervades the state over the anti-grazing law, Mr Alia said: “One thing must remain clear, when you say that the atmosphere was quite tensed, let it be on record that the Benue people are very hospital people.
The crowd wasn’t as much as this, but they started taking them in when the ones inside started coming out,” she said.
Also, in a statement from the office of the president-elect signed by Tunde Rahman, Mr Tinubu pledged to work to ensure continued positive relations with the United States.
“INEC, suspecting cyberattack, withheld the uploading of the results in order to preserve the integrity of the data,” the minister was quoted as saying by the government-owned News Agency of Nigeria.
Read our Tuesday report here.
King Charles III crowned Britain’s monarch
The government has again made it clear that it thinks the ICC is biased in its prosecutions against Africa and enemies of the West.
“In an election cycle in which the major contenders come from different ethnic-regional classes or zones, there was always a sense that the competition was going to be particularly intense.
“The South-east can’t be in contention for the Senate Presidency because its people didn’t vote for the APC,” he said.
According to the president-elect, it was not a surprise or not by accident that the electorate rejected the 1st petitioner at the polls of the presidential election held on F25 February.
“If the crescent is sighted by Muslims in accordance with the moon sighting and verification standards, then His Eminence would declare 21st April 2023 as the 1st of Shawwal and the day of ‘Idul Fitr (Day of Sallah).
Though it currently boasts of around 25 and 30 universities, the state of those universities leaves a lot to be desired.
But Hz insists Marzah did the killings.
P&ID successfully sued the Nigerian government for breach of the contract at an arbitration tribunal presided over by Lord Hoffmann, a retired senior English judge.
“There must be a deliberate and appropriate investment in the improvement of the welfare of all security agencies particularly the Police, and adequately equipping them to function effectively and efficiently.”
Mr Fashola said he investigated the claim and found it was baseless because nobody knew where it came from, even as many Nigerians believed it.
He finally arrived at Heathrow on 14 February 2020 but his bags had not arrived at the same time.
The religious leaders in attendance were Abubakar Sulaiman, the Chief Imam of the Aso Rock Villa, Sheikh Al-Kanawi Alhassan Ahmed, Bashir Umar, Muhammad Kamaluddeen Lemu and Nuruddeen Danesi Asunogie.
The Nigerian government, despite the initial hurdles, has succeeded in evacuating most of its nationals from the country without any fatality recorded.
In his written statements to the court, Cahill acknowledged paying $88,000 to Grace Taiga, the ministry’s head lawyer, who advised the petroleum minister to sign a memorandum of understanding with P&ID in 2009 and witnessed the minister’s signing of the gas contract with P&ID the following year.
When they were first arraigned in February, the court held that the defendants had a case to answer.
(This article was first published by ISS Today, a Premium Times syndication partner.
“The sureties must reside within the court’s jurisdiction and must have three years’ tax payment to the Lagos State,” he said.
“Papa Adebanjo has remained consistent in sustaining the ideals of progressive good governance and social justice.
“You voted for continuity in the provision of urban and rural infrastructure, policies that empower our women and youths and continuity of justice and fair play,’’ he said.
“Research shared with The Times from SBM Intelligence, a Lagos-based analytical group, has revealed videos on social media and WhatsApp of militant leaders boasting that they are so powerful that Chinese workers wishing to operate in their areas must pay them ‘rent’.
“The Vice-Chancellor charged the new appointees to bring to bear their wealth of experience in the discharge of their duties and responsibilities for the overall development of the institution,” he said.
The Obi-Datti Media, in a statement on Wednesday by its Head, Diran Onifade, said Mr Obi was detained in London by UK immigration officials over alleged impersonation.
Resolutions are carefully worded to showcase each global power’s comparative advantage, leaving African leaders heartened by their benevolence.
But she insisted the payments were not bribes.
Thirdly, Chimamanda writes most laughably about “Unusually large, enthusiastic crowds” that turned up for Obi’s rallies.
The president, who stated this while addressing his colleagues at the Commonwealth Leaders Summit on Friday in London, said the country learnt lessons which would make subsequent polls even better.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Mr Baba gave marching orders for the evacuation of officers and men in dilapidated structures in Lagos, after the recent collapse of a building at Sango Police Barracks, Ibadan, Oyo State.
He said it would lead to enhanced collaboration between the defence, intelligence and security communities while providing the platform for the denial of freedom of action to perpetrators of insecurity across Nigeria.
Mr Shuaib said: “This will be achieved through effective management supervision, appropriate compensation, and the recruitment and deployment of Human Resources for Health, such as medical doctors, midwives, nurses, and Community Health Extension Workers (CHEWs), to prioritise PHC facilities nationwide.”
“This is why I most humbly write to officially inform you of my interest to be elected the next Senate President,” he stated.
That the candidates received the following votes,” he said.
INEC on Sunday in Gusau declared the candidates of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for Zamfara Central senatorial district and that of Gusau/Tsafe federal constituency as winners in Saturday’s supplementary election.
Google Trends, on the other hand, is a publicly available tool that displays relative search volume across geographies, periods and queries that people want to know about.
The United Kingdom, especially the greater London area, is noted for its rapid increase in the value of properties.
My passion for nation-building has fuelled my desire to seek this office at this critical time when various divergent views of governance exist in different zones in the nation,” he wrote.
“Since the March 10 court injunction, the Isiguzoros have been in hiding, and Ohanaeze pleads information for their whereabouts,” it said.
Mr Akpabio, a former governor of Akwa Ibom State, was earlier invited by the EFCC in March but Mr Kalu, in a letter to the commission dated 27 March, said his client would not be able to honour the invitation due to a scheduled medical appointment overseas.
2023 UTME: JAMB announces date to release results
Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu, CFR, did not issue any statement with respect to the inauguration of President-elect Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu,” Ohanaeze said.
In January 2022, Lagos State converted the trio of Adeniran Ogunsanya College of Education ((AOCOED), Ijanikin, Lagos; Michael Otedola College of Primary Education (MOCPED), Noforija, Epe, Lagos, and Lagos State Polytechnic (LASPOTECH), Ikorodu into universities.
It gives a reason for the riveting attention millions of Nigerians and foreigners within and outside Nigerian borders are paying to the proceedings of the Presidential Election Petition Court in Abuja, which began sitting on Monday.
Meanwhile, at the opening ceremony of the conference, the association also inducted 17 individuals as its fellows.
This newspaper reported how the Oyomesi, the kingmakers in the kingdom, forwarded the name of their selected candidate to the governor last year after a vote.
I’ll be back, and still travel wider.”
“No tactical team is actually permitted to mount a point and be doing stop and search but to work on intelligence and burst any criminal’s den.”
“That the banks shocked by the demand and the threat of arrest requested for time for them to audit their books to verify the claims for multiple payments in line with the payment instructions given by the 3rd respondent,” he said.
“We disagree with the university management on this decision but we are working out the possibility of reaching a compromise on the matter,” he said.
Police arrest two kidnap suspects in Delta
The Federal Executive Council (FEC) has approved the granting of Nigerian citizenship to 385 applicants who have met the requirements.
At the time mosquirix vaccine was approved, the WHO said it was based on results from an ongoing pilot programme in Ghana, Kenya and Malawi that has reached more than 800,000 children since 2019.
“Policymakers have a narrow path to walk to improve prospects and minimize risks.
“The 7th UN Global Road Safety Week is focusing on sustainable transport with the slogan #RethinkMobility, which necessitates the urgent need to shift to walking, cycling and using public transport.
So far six people were removed from the rabbles and two have died while four are in the hospital at the moment.
The charges against Mompha include conspiracy to launder money obtained through unlawful activities and laundering money received through illegal activities.
The police command through its spokesperson, Mohammed Shehu, however insisted only nine residents were abducted.
Mr Betara is one of the 10 aspirants jostling for the position ahead of the 13 June inauguration of the National Assembly.
Mr Buhari stressed that the council would serve as a critical governance structure in the implementation of the Act, which will ensure that government agencies, entrepreneurs, investors, and support organizations collaborate with the startup ecosystem to achieve the goals of promoting the growth of a vibrant and sustainable startup ecosystem.
Last October a Chinese citizen, Gang Deng, 29, was jailed for five years after being found with 25 tonnes of a mineral thought to be lepidolite, containing lithium, which is used in batteries.
Come 2015 when our own Senator David Mark was the Senate President.
“We expected Akpabio, as a high ranking member of this party, to be able to reach out and do the right thing.
He stated this on Tuesday during an interface with journalists at the Transcorp Hilton in Abuja.
“Consequent upon the above, the hoodlums attacked the officers unprovoked and attempted to forcefully drag a rifle from one of them, which led to a shot being discharged from the barrel during the process of the struggle.
Mr Otti asked Mr Ikpeazu to “arrest this self-sabotage” and ensure that every property belonging to the government but was illegally taken is returned.
“In all, a total of seven people were killed comprising of two male adults, three female adults and two male children.
“It is sad that your hard-earned reputation is undergoing very severe stress and pressure from those who want justice on their own terms.
Speaking on the Freedom of Information Act, Mr Mimiko said as an important instrument of accountability in the country, the media and citizens should take advantage of it.
Ms Ikeanyionwu said the suspect has confessed that she beat up the girl with a pestle and cane because the victim “threw” her child on the ground, but she asked the commissioner for forgiveness.
“We want to create this strong awareness to the Yoruba Nation that the vote of no confidence on Pa Adebanjo still stands.
“Leadership of a sophisticated Senate at the 10th Session will need men and women with an abundance of shared vision, consensus building, charisma, credibility and pragmatism in the saddle.
Mr Gbillah said this will be the final notice to the ministers, adding that the committee may be forced to invoke its constitutional power of warrant of arrest.
They were however not allowed to cross Egypt’s border with Sudan
Ilesa University was established by the immediate past governor of the state, Adegboyega Oyetola, on March 31, 2022,
Look around the world and see how practically every country struggles from these disasters.
The vice-chancellor said only black and brown hair would be allowed on campus and gave the staff and students one month to adjust to the new rules or face disciplinary action.
Outgoing British High Commissioner to Nigeria, Catriona Laing, says she is fascinated by Nigeria, particularly the music, dance, and culture, and she has had “a fabulous time here.”
They had each pleaded not guilty to the charges and were granted bail.
• Mohammed Adamu Aliero Kebbi Central
Gunmen have killed a police officer in Imo State, south-east Nigeria.
According to the newspaper, the military officers were sent to the fishing community to maintain peace after a traditional ruler was beheaded during a communal conflict in the area.
He said he was the reason why Director, Litigation of Supreme Court, Mr Dikko, was removed and dismissed.
Mr Mele, a professor, said the PDP governorship candidate has met the constitutional requirement and thereby returned as governor of the state.
Like it has been reported before now, there has been a lot of investigation that is going on right now and you can see that they are still clearing the rubbles at the site.
Also speaking, Abiodun Amoo, a lecturer with the Agricultural Technology Department, Auchi Polytechnic, added that climate change had also affected acquaculture practices in the country.
According to the petitioner, the validity of Mr Tinubu’s nomination as APC’s presidential candidate was “hinged” on his running mate.
For a number of years now we commence these interventions and we will encourage schools because we believe the hostels are one of the areas where private sector funding can be attracted.
It was largely due to his efforts during that period that the practice of Arbitration and Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) became composite parts of Nigerian legal practice.
Mr Anieke also banned exchange of pornographic materials, saying such act is a taboo in the institution.
I will also advise them very strongly not to go on a five-day warning strike.
The lawyer argued that it is legally permissible, in some circumstances, to take a debtor’s property as a lien.
President Muhammadu Buhari has returned to Abuja after eight-day official visit to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, where he also performed the Umrah (Lesser Hajj).
“As the powerhouse of the West Africa sub-region, Nigeria has committed both human and material resources to the attainment of peace in the sub-region,” he noted.
Boma breaks up with Xavier and cuts off ties with Donna when she discovers the truth.
CBN’s Acting Director, Corporate Communications Department, Isa Abdulmumin, made this known in a statement in Abuja on Sunday.
Presenting the motion, Mr Umar said the National Assembly approved a 22.8 billion-dollar loan for the modernisation of the Kaduna-Kano railway project in 2020.
The group claimed the Nigerian government “dubiously removed” history from the country’s educational curricula so that descendants of Biafra would not remember the fight for freedom and those who died in the struggle for their freedom.
His appeal was successful.
Abia Govt announces new retirement age for teachers
I look forward to further engagements with you and the opportunity of a meeting in the nearest future as both of us had earlier indicated in discussions with mutual friends and associates.
The zoning arrangement reported to the NWC is as follows:
Findings revealed that toxic pollutants from oil spills and gas flaring were many times higher than the safe limits in samples of soil, air, water and in the blood of local residents amongst others.
The defendants in the case are the state governor, the attorney-general of the state and Sola Giwa, who is the Special Adviser to the state governor on transportation.
“Assuming a policeman beats you up in uniform, you don’t retaliate by beating the policeman.
The statement said some persons who sustained injuries in the incident were being treated.
Mrs Ogunbiyi solicited for assistance from the Organisation and the German government in some areas that will help the commission rebuild the Nigeria Police Force for better performance.
The Head of the Public Affairs and Protocol Unit of the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB), Fabian Benjamin, has said the examination body is currently reviewing the details of the Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) conducted so far.
The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) High Court in Abuja had restrained Mr Abure from parading himself as the national chairman of the party.
Mr Obi, the Labour Party (LP) candidate in the 2023 presidential election, lost to Mr Tinubu of the All Progressives Congress.
President-elect, Federal Republic of Nigeria
The police spokesperson, Muyiwa Adejobi, made this known on PREMIUM TIMES Twitter Spaces on Wednesday.
Nigeria’s Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffery Onyeama, confirmed the arrival of the buses in Aswan to PREMIUM TIMES.
Dramatic flooding after two days of heavy rainfall in the northern Italian regions of Emilia-Romagna and Marche has led to deaths and damage along the country’s Adriatic coast.
He said the Nigeria Police Force, as a disciplined organisation, will not “condone such cruel action” by any member of the force, assuring the errant officer will be prosecuted in addition to “being subjected to internal disciplinary measures.”
Naira depreciates at official market
Mr Soyinka, who described the LP vice presidential candidate’s comments as “fascist”, said his utterances were a threat to the judiciary and therefore not acceptable.
But the government later suspended the plan after the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and Trade Union Congress (TUC) threatened to embark on mass protests.
The gubernatorial candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Adamawa state, Aishatu Dahiru, popularly known as Binani, delivered an acceptance speech shortly after she was illegally declared the governor-elect of the state by the resident electoral commissioner (REC).
The members-elect, in the statement, signed by the trio of Dachung Bagos (PDP, Plateau) Afam Ogene (LP, Anambra) and Gaza Gbefwi (SDP, Nasarawa), said they would use their numerical strength of188 in the 360-member House to create upset against the All Progressives Congress (APC) which has 177 members-elect.
Mr Gagdi, who represents Pankshin/Kanam/Kanke federal constituency of Plateau State, said he plans to trigger a conversation on how the parliament ought to perform.
We’re witnessing relative peace in the main town, but those in the villages are still being attacked,” he said.
“Any other things that you forgot to mention please let me know and I will do such at my level best.”
That would require in the coming years even greater commitment to following the plan, to departmental accountability for failure to deliver on reforms, and to unwavering excellence.”
Mr Akorede said the family thanked the NBA delegation for the visit.
He thanked the governor for being consistent in the prompt payment of salaries at the beginning of his administration and urged him to end his tenure well through clearing the backlog.
Mr Sanwo-Olu on Sunday cheered the foodpreneur at the event, currently being held at Amore Gardens, Lekki.
“Therefore, when a faction of it comes to take laws into its hands, it becomes a total nullity.
The APC PCC was set up in October 2022 to prosecute the 2023 presidential election of Bola Tinubu and Kashim Shettima.
President Muhammadu Buhari rejoices with the media on the occasion of World Press Freedom Day, celebrated every May 3 internationally.
Mr Tinubu was also accompanied on the visit by the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan; the APC National Chairman, Abdullahi Adamu; the Speaker House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila; and the Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege, among others.
Earlier, in 2020, Malami mischaracterized the fact that Nigeria was not included in CPJ’s annual Impunity Index as an achievement by Nigerian authorities.
Well-known to be an ally of another Nigerian international fraudster, Ramon Abbas, alias Hushpuppi, who was jailed last year, Woodberry was accused of conspiring with other co-schemers to engage in an extensive business email compromise (BEC) scheme.
The members-elect, in the statement, signed by the trio of Dachung Bagos (PDP, Plateau) Afam Ogene (LP, Anambra) and Gaza Gbefwi (SDP, Nasarawa), said they will use their numerical strength of188 in the 360-member House to create upset against the All Progressives Congress (APC) which has 177 members-elect.
Fascism is all of the violence that happened during the election, it’s all about the silence that some people retain about that violence.
He also said the board would hold its rescheduled mock UTME on 18 April.
“We urge motorists to realise that life has no duplicate and drive to stay alive,” she said.
Prof. Yemi Oke, PhD, FCTI, FCIArb.
PREMIUM TIMES learnt that Mr Manga was kidnapped Sunday afternoon around noon.
The force spokesperson said that barracks affected in Lagos include Adekunle, Agege, Alausa, Area F, Bar-Beach, Bourdillon, Falomo, Federal Highway Patrol, MTX Highway and Ijeh Police Barracks.
In the past couple of weeks, the post-election dispute has taken an international dimension as Mr Tinubu and the opposition continue to seek the nod of the international community.
The judge, Inyang Ekwo, who expressed doubts about Binani’s suit, directed Binani’s lawyer to return to court on 26 April to address him on the point of law.
The two men were arrested for extensive international online scams in Dubai, the United Arab Emirates, on 10 June 2020, and were flown to the United States to face separate trials.
He has declared that he is now for APC as much as for PDP, LP, and other major political parties in Nigeria.
Mr Ikpeazu explained that the recent freezing of the state government’s account due to a court order affected the payment of salaries.
The report, which was titled: ‘Improving maternal and newborn health and survival and reducing stillbirth: Progress Report 2023’ and released by the World Health Organisation (WHO) on Tuesday shows that Nigeria, Africa’s most populous nation is only behind India in the latest ranking.
“We, therefore, enjoin the good people of Ebonyi to discountenance the order and go about their lawful business without fear of intimidation as Police is prepared, more than before to provide them with maximum protection for their safety,” Mr Olaleye said.
“The IGP has instructed all newly-posted and redeployed officers to strive to ensure that their commands, formations, and departments comply with the Police Reform mandate.
The one that was supposed to start by 11 a.m we had a little challenge so it started by 12 p.m,” she said.
NAN observed that while the contractor, Eko and Marine Bridge projects, did the barricade, a combined team of traffic regulatory agencies managed traffic around the diversion.
“I urge, therefore, that we unite in love so that together we can get the job done.
The commission’s headquarters quickly reacted by saying Mr Ari’s declaration was null, void and of no effect.
Mr Gbajabiamila stated this on Tuesday during a meeting with Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, Zubair Dada; Director General, Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NiDCOM), Abike Dabiri-Erewa; Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs Social Development, Nasir Gwarzo; and other officials of government.
Conflict and instability become more likely.
“Religion was quite clearly made an issue, and in some parts of the country, political biases are introduced even between denominations of the same religion.
The Sector Commander, Uche Chukwurah told reporters in Abakaliki that the accident occurred at the Ezillo end of the Enugu-Abakaliki-Ogoja highway.
“You are calling for equity and fairness, but you decided to concentrate your votes for LP.
In a statement by the spokesperson of the police command, Alabo Alfred, the arrested suspects are in the custody of Operation Safe Haven (OPSH), a joint security unit of soldiers and police personnel.
“Having satisfied the requirements of the law and scored the highest number of votes, Abbas Faisal of the APC is returned elected,” he said.
“Rather than people around to have helped when the accident happened, some resolved to jungle justice by killing the young man and setting his car ablaze.
However, the state Commissioner for Information, Bamidele Ademola-Olateju, said on Friday that forest reserves belong to the government, and farming and hunting are forbidden there.
She said the suspension order was sanctioned by the authorities at the education ministry.
The senator-elect also wrote his colleagues to canvass their endorsement and support.
If Chimamandi is unwilling to sacrifice to make Nigeria better, she should kindly desist from undermining the resolve of those of us who believe that Nigeria could be better if we all make necessary sacrifices like American did to build their country where Chimamadi now sojourns.
Huwaila Muhammad – ALTERNATE CHAIRMAN
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that INEC had declared the 18 March governorship election in the state inconclusive.
“I am not disputing that the purpose of the code was to make sure that if somebody raided the office they were not in a position to say, ‘Here are payments to individuals, here are payments to officials, here are payments to the army, etc, without invoices,’” Cahill said.
The candidate of the Labour Party (LP), Peter Obi, won the 25 February presidential election in Obio/Akpor Local Government Area of Rivers State, South-south Nigeria, according to results uploaded on the INEC Results Viewing Portal (IReV).
House of Reps member-elect dies in Taraba
Despite creating numerous chances in the remaining minutes, Nigeria could not extend their lead, either due to the South African goalkeeper’s heroics or their own lack of finishing prowess.
The following should be understood but never underestimated.
Households that receive remittances increase their spending, which boosts local economic activity and the incomes of other households in the community.
The experts spoke during the second edition of the National Animal Feed Summit held in Abuja.
The protesters, who are demanding joint inspection of the 2023 election materials with other political parties, were accompanied by a native doctor, who placed a ceramic pot in front of INEC office.
The Amotekun commandant said Mr Ogunfadeke was arrested following a complaint by the children’s mother.
Mr Baba-Ahmed’s comment attracted a N5 million fine from the National Broadcasting Commission (NBC) for the television station.
However, with the postponement a new date to be determined by the incoming administration would be announced.
He also held that the FCT, Abuja is treated as a state in the federation, adding, “It is different from the Federal High Court, this court can only assume jurisdiction in the matters within the FCT.”
There was no way the ATMs could dispense cash, having been vandalised by the youths in the area.
We are not happy that we are on strike because we have families and friends as patients also.
The incoming Tinubu administration will prevent the experiences of 2011 and 2015 when members of the House of Representatives revolted against the candidates of the ruling party, Vice President-elect Kashim Shettima said on Friday.
There were reports of attacks and suppression of voters in the state.
The court also granted Mr Kuti a ‘suspended’ bail that will come to effect after the remand.
He said Mr Malami should honour the invitation of the committee to provide clarification.
She urged all parties to come to an agreement that ensures the safety of humanitarian workers on the ground and enables the continued delivery of life-saving humanitarian assistance to the people of Sudan who remain a top priority.
“As we are now, we are waiting for the Force Headquarters to reveal the outcome of the investigation.
The alleged offence was said to be contrary to section 47(2)(a) of Criminal Code Act CapC45 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004.
He prayed for N100 billion damages and an order reinstating him to the office.
The lawyer also said that the fines were in violation of the right to fair hearing under Section 36 of the 1999 Constitution (as amended) and Articles 7 of the African Charter on Human and Peoples Rights (Ratification and Enforcement) Act (Cap AQ) Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004.
“We have deployed 20 personnel to monitor the conduct of the state Assembly elections in Kafur, Kankara in Katsina State,“ he said.
Mr Tinubu returned to Nigeria on Monday after a four-week vacation in France.
In fact, Tinubu got 30 percent of his total votes from the North West.
Ms Adeh, a superintendent of police, said the meeting deliberated on ways of restoring peace between the communities and how to keep the youths in check, as well as identify bad elements and oust them from the area.
But Atiku, Mr Obi and some other parties had rejected the results announced by INEC, and proceeded to the Presidential Election Petition Court to challenge Mr Tinubu’s victory.
They also prayed the court for an order compelling Nigeria’s electoral commission, INEC, not to recognise Mr Usman-Ododo as APC’s governorship candidate on account of irregularities during the primary poll.
“I can tell you of all the people I met, all the 360 members of the National Assembly, I have not heard anyone who says taking the speakership to the North-west will be an injustice to any zone.
NiMet`s weather outlook released in Abuja on Sunday forecast a sunny atmosphere with few patches of clouds over the northern region.
Workers Day also known as May Day is celebrated annually on 1 May.
He averred that the order had restrained the EFCC from investigating any account of the Kogi State Government, pending the determination of the Motion on Notice
Mr Ozekhome, a law professor, disclosed that he was served with a copy of the court document on Wednesday, a day before Thursday’s proceedings during which the Supreme Court validated the additional filing by the federal government.
Mr Aliero said it was a breach of the constitution by NDDC to engage on expenditure on the budget extimates without approval of the National Assembly.
Your Excellencies, I’ll like to thank you very much for the singing of “He’s a jolly good fellow”.
Can we gather the debris and like a game of puzzle start to put things back?
The House resolved to urge the government of the UK and the court to temper justice with mercy in sentencing Mr Ekweremadu, a former deputy senate president, his wife and their doctor.
House Majority Leader Ado Doguwa, who is facing murder charges, re-elected
The Ad hoc Committee probing the inability of NCC to provide widespread available telecommunication networks received the document in Abuja on Wednesday.
The governor had, in a statement by his media adviser, Terver Akase, on 13 April, called for postponement of the population and housing census “until adequate security” was guaranteed in the country.
The future of Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila is the major talking point as far as the South-west is concerned.
Our promise of change has been fulfilled for you.
To secure relevance in the global energy market of today and the future, Mr Kyari said NNPC will leverage partnerships with the industry, governments, research institutions and academia to strengthen its renewable energy division to pursue commercially viable new energy ventures in line with Nigeria’s net-zero aspiration by 2060.
Marginally growing by 3.2 per cent, revenue came to N32.4 billion compared to the N31.4 billion recorded in the first quarter of last year.
The NSCIA also congratulated the Nigerian Muslims on the occasion of the upcoming Sallah celebration while urging them to distribute the compulsory Zakatul Fitr (Compulsory food levy given to the needy on Sallah Day) on time.
In a statement by his spokesperson, Femi Adesina, on Friday, in Abuja, Mr Buhari said the scheme had indeed achieved the goal of national integration.
The APC, on Monday, also adopted them during a meeting of the NWC.
Known for her blend of Afrobeats, R&B, pop and hip-hop, 43-year-old Tiwa is one of Nigeria’s biggest hitmakers and music ambassadors.
It said the attacks were similar to the events that triggered the outbreak of the Nigeria civil war during which millions of people were killed.
Mr Buhari's chief personal security officer (CPSO) was prompted from the rank of deputy commissioner of police to the full rank of a commissioner.
“We must take a human rights and gender transformative approach to address maternal and newborn mortality, and it is vital that we stamp out the underlying factors which give rise to poor maternal health outcomes like socio-economic inequalities, discrimination, poverty, and injustice,” she said.
”Paragraph 35 of the petition is not relevant or cognizable and 84 is vague as no specific figure or polling units are pleaded as the margin of lead to be countered by the respondent,” the APC said..
Out of the 6.6 million total votes in the North-west, Mr Tinubu got 2.65 million, placing him ahead of his closest contestants.
The court also ordered AMCON to take all necessary steps to realise the assets of the obligor
According to a statement by the governor’s spokesperson, Olayinka Oyebode, on Sunday, the governor said the appointment is to give physically challenged people a voice in government and help redress their neglect.
Specifically, the Supreme Court held that “It was imperative that the appellants (Oyetola and APC) produced the BIVAS machines or certified true copies of the BIVAS in evidence to show non-accreditation and over-voting.”
Keystone Bank and Ecobank had left Oron over two years ago but their abandoned properties were also vandalised by the protesters, Emmanuel Antai, a journalist in the area, told our reporter.
‘My husband runs after anything in skirt’, Woman tells Court
UBA makes this week’s list for posting a 29 per cent increase in profit from N41.5 billion to N53.6 billion in the first quarter.
Such multi-pronged initiatives can build the international commitment and cooperation required to stop wildlife trafficking.
Lassa Fever: Baby tests positive in Lagos as family confirms improved treatment after PREMIUM TIMES’ report
Literally half of the population had registered for the elections and were armed with their voters’ cards.
“That the sale of nomination forms for the off season elections in Bayelsa, Kogi and Imo states should commence immediately.
The academic added that Ms Adichie represents recent generations of Nigerian intelligentsias in the diaspora.
He joined the services of Federal University Birnin Kebbi on 26th May, 2015 as Lecturer I at the Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, where he rose through ranks to become Professor in 2022.”
One solution was suggested by Justice Minister Ronald Lamola when he told Parliament this week that the government was exploring the possibility of amending the country’s ICC implementation act to allow the usual diplomatic immunity for visiting heads of state.
The video showed that Mr Ganduje and some of his governor colleagues including Ben Ayade of Cross River State were in a meeting with some individuals.
Giving grounds why the motion should be granted, Binani stated that after the collation of results, INEC declared her as the winner of the elections but the PDP and its candidate, Governor Fintiri, resorted to fighting and causing a public disturbance which led to the beating and manhandling of an INEC staff.
The vice president commended former Head of State, Yakubu Gowon, for his belief in a better Nigeria.
He signed the form immediately under the declaration that reads: “I declare that I have read ‘Bringing goods into the UK from outside the EU’ poster and the warning and that the answers to the questions and the particulars I have given on this form are true and complete’.
This, the minister said, was with a view to ensure peace and security of lives and property of Nigerians.
He also prayed for an order setting aside and/or nullifying the revocation of the title of the Plaintiff/Applicant on 24 January 2020 by the defendants/respondents but received on 29 of January 2020 during the pendency of the action.
Sometimes, they traveled as far as Uyo, the state capital, for it.
The offences, the prosecution said, breached sections 97 and 392 of the Penal Code Law.
The commission would take a decision on the matter after a meeting in Abuja, an official says.
Mrs Buhari asked the government to subsidise the high cost of cardiac interventions and spend more on personnel training and the procurement of equipment.
Speaking at the event, the Executive Secretary of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Primary Health Care Board, Isah Vatsa, said the country must vaccinate at least 70 per cent of the eligible population to achieve herd immunity against COVID-19.
In Malawi, the US Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs assisted local authorities in improving the capacity of investigators.
“Besides, 13,000 youths have been trained under a Technical and Vocational Education and Training programme in six states..."
“Gibril was selected as head of that delegation,” said Defense 7.
According to her, the bandits/kidnappers on sighting the security team coordinated by the police, engaged the security team in a shootout duel.
Senate confirms NDIC board members
Read Mr Alake’s full statement
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the 25 February National Assembly elections in Sokoto State were declared inconclusive, and INEC fixed 15 April for the supplementary elections.
PREMIUM TIMES writes UK Govt, requests details of Peter Obi’s arrest
President-elect, Bola Tinubu, has expressed his profound sadness over the demise of eminent elder statesman and international jurist, Prince Bola Ajibola, SAN
”So, that is why I believe strongly that no one should be given any serious responsibility until the person is tested for drugs.”
The Chairman of the primary election committee, Governor Mohammed Bello-Matawale of Zamfara, confirmed the development after Thursday’s meeting.
The defendants had said the EFCC lacked the power to prosecute offences affecting the finances and assets of the state as a law has been enacted by the state House of Assembly to tackle corruption allegations in the state.
According to him, the company is making meaningful progress in creating economic opportunities for its members and customers and experiencing record engagement on the platform.
Mr Akinbajo’s presentation is themed: “Shining Light: How to get your Ocean and Climate stories in the news.”
The 1950 FIFA World Cup final game, which was held in an enclosed stadium, had a record-breaking crowd of 199,854.
“We are impressed by the newspaper’s response and we can confirm that things have significantly improved.
Members of the panel of the Presidential Election Petition Court will be unveiled at the inaugural sitting on Monday.
In its extensive survey, the newspaper revealed that over 100 fake UBA social media accounts exist, noting that financial institutions such as First Bank and Guaranty Trust Bank also have cloned social media accounts largely handled by internet fraudsters fleecing unsuspecting customers.
But the group has repeatedly denied any involvement in the attacks.
“An ill-fated currency exchange attempt worsened what was already a bad situation,” it said.
Justice Ringim, in granting the application held that “I find merit in this statutory application and same is granted as prayed.”
PT: The elephant in the room is zoning.
Atiku, in a fresh court filing submitted to the Presidential Election Petition Court (PEPC) sitting in Abuja, also accused Mr Tinubu of not disclosing facts of his constitutional qualifications in his Form EC9 submitted to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), contrary to the provisions of the law.
Since then, Mr Ohadoma has been remanded in prison and is scheduled to appear again before the magistrate on 26 April.
Mr Tinubu, the candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the 25 February election, polled 8,794,726 votes to defeat Atiku, who polled 6,984,520 votes and Mr Obi, who got 6,101,533 votes.
He dedicates himself to the service of God and humanity and he continues to play visible roles in national development.
At 57, he is the youngest among the judges on the panel of the Presidential Election Petition Court.
He also said, “In 2011, any northerner opposed to the ambition of Buhari was considered an infidel.
Broda Shaggi provided a special appearance at the launch of the university’s ‘UNILAG in Town’ project with a stage drama performed by the students of the Creative Arts Department.
The exam body “also gives them a token for their travel,” he said.
But this may not be announced publicly,” the source added.
Mr Waive urged members-elect to vote for him during the inauguration of the House.
A skull was reportedly found in the suspect’s bag with his tools for digging up graves.
But Nigeria recorded an output of 999,000 bpd in April compared to 1.3 million bpd in March.
Force Public Relations Officer,
Israel Nwachukwu Usulor (Real Sapphire FC)
Mr Idem warned that the interim government is a “resort to anarchy, with a price many generations after us will continue to pay for.”
Abduction for ransom has been on the increase lately in Enugu State.
They, therefore, said they would not applaud his administration for the feat, alleging that it was meant to burden the incoming administration.
They are a former senator, Dino Melaye, a former deputy governor of the state, Yomi Awoniyi, another former senator, Attai Aidoko, Kebiru Usman and Abdullahi Haruna.
He said the police have also seized 12 motorcycles from suspects in the incident.
“With this new acquisition, HH Capital Limited now holds a total of 9,991,173,177 units, representing 25.58% of the Company’s total shares,” Transcorp said in a statement.
He said the implementation of the new policy would take effect from next week.
In 2015, Mr Tinubu reportedly played a leading role in the presidential election in Guinea.
Mr Tinubu of the All Progressives Congress was declared the winner of the 25 February presidential election after polling a total of 8,794,726 votes.
In the North-west, Mr Tinubu polled 2,653,235
“After reviewing and re-jigging our operational modalities, the unit intercepted contrabands with a duty paid value of N2.8 billion between January 25 and March 25.
The report said Wuse II consistently ranked as the most expensive market for buying necessary ingredients needed for making a pot of Jollof rice, with a cost of N13,700.
PREMIUM TIMES reported that Tonye Cole, the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) was reportedly attacked by the protesters while trying to honour an appointment with INEC officials on Monday.
The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had on 1 March declared Mr Tinubu of the candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) winner of the 25 February presidential election.
That I am not using my gender to stomp them out of the way.
The airport is named after President Muhammadu Buhari.
President-generals of the Ohanaeze Ndigbo usually emerge through an election conducted by the general assembly of the apex Igbo group.
Having looked at the case in its entirety, especially regarding efforts AMCON made to resolve the loan amicably without cooperation from the obligor, the court finally decided to back AMCON’s takeover of Glano Nigeria Limited.
The Federal University of Technology Akure (FUTA) has announced the appointment of a new registrar and librarian.
“Elections should be won at the polling units and that is what the Supreme Court has just done to the Osun election matter,’’ he said.
“The result of the various strategic operations to flush out the criminals is what we are showcasing today.”
“Susan liked Mary very much and regarded her as a mother figure.” Little Susan did not have the luxury of spending much time with Mary.
“Senator Akpabio obtained APC’s presidential nomination form but on the night of the primary, he was the first aspirant to step down for the now president-elect, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu,” he said.
Nigerians migrate to Canada, the United States, and other European countries to seek opportunities
12:22pm: May Agbamuche-Mbu announces appearance on behalf of INEC.
This is his first time participating in the panel of a presidential election petition court, a rarity that only a handful of judges in a generation are opportune to be involved in.
The Federal Executive Council (FEC) on Wednesday approved two contracts worth N15.3 billion for the supply an installation of information and communication technology (ICT) components and digital assistance devices for the 2023 population census.
He should step down.
• Mohammed Sani Musa – Niger East
Mr Agada said the party had also suspended Terhemba Shija and some ward officials for anti-party activities, alleging they worked against the party during the 2023 general elections.
The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, has denied a report that he endorsed Tajudeen Abbas (APC, Kaduna) for the speakership position.
According to the Director-General, “NAFDAC did not ban Indomie Instant Noodles produced in Nigeria.
The judge said though he was ready to hear Mr Sheriff, the lawyer must address the court on the issue of jurisdiction before he proceeded.
I recorded this video myself.
The Emirs of Kano and Bichi in Kano State, Aminu Ado Bayero and Nasiru Ado Bayero who spoke after the event both said only a united country could move forward and attain its goals.
He commended Chad’s Transitional President Idriss Déby-Itno for his “efforts to see a calming down, and for them to live peacefully.
“Many of these squatters have long inhabited these forests and have developed a false sense of ownership.
But Mr Powerful, the group spokesperson, maintained that the Monday sit-at-home remains suspended, describing those behind the civil action as criminals.
He added that Sulaiman Umar of the Labour Party (LP) scored 1,463 votes and Shehu Doka of the NNPP scored 1,058 votes.
Supplementary state and federal constituency elections hold in Kano, Katsina and Jigawa states on Saturday.
“I am in disbelief that @SecBlinken called Tinubu a contradiction to the publicly stated position of the US on Nigeria’s 2023 presidential election,” he wrote.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) gathered that Mr Olasupo was kidnapped at about 6:30 a.m. on Sunday while going to his duty post.
“This is most unfortunate, especially when it is glaring that the military has subdued the rate of attacks in the Southern Kaduna area of Kaduna State,” he added
“The only zone in the south that has not been favoured is the South-east.
The Labour Party (LP) has 14 seats on the list, while the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has the remaining 10 seats.
But to an already battered people who stoically absorb unimaginable shocks and disappointments from its elected officials, this is just one additional smash as they wait for the next one.
The former governor of Akwa Ibom State is one of the contenders for the office of the Senate president for the yet-to-be inaugurated 10th National Assembly.
The police later said the matter was linked to a tweet by Mr Nnamdi that allegedly cast Mr Offor, a billionaire businessman, in an odious light.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) gathered that eight aspirants voluntarily withdrew from the race at a meeting held at the party’s secretariat in Lokoja on Thursday and presided over by Governor Bello.
The Support Group for Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu in the North-west made the call during a press conference in Kano on Sunday.
This is not the first time street sweepers are protesting in Calabar metropolis over the non-payment of their stipends.
He won his re-election into the House.
“And today, we are to review what happened from then to where we are here today.
The name of the officer is shown as M.J Oni.
Consequently, Mr Lawal ordered the removal of Mr Oye’s name as the national chairman of APGA.
It urged all Airline operators to avail themselves of weather reports periodically from its office for effective planning of their operations.
There are still a number of oppressive and media-unfriendly laws, such as those on criminal defamation and cybercrime, that need to be amended.
“For our democracy to meet the legitimate expectations of the Nigerian people, the institutions of government have to become better than they are.”
“All those that I have hurt, I ask that they pardon me.”
The vice president-elect, Kashim Shettima, on Friday said the two were nomimated after consideration of the need to show religious balance in the political leadership of the country,
Thursday’s proceedings set the stage for the full hearing of the appeal challenging the lower Court of Appeal’s October 2022 judgement that dismissed the charges against the IPOB leader.
The Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) has asked President Muhammadu Buhari to commence an investigation into the alleged missing 149 million barrels of crude oil.
Mr Buhari had on Thursday when he received the APC governors at his residence in the State House cited overconfidence and bad tactical moves as some of the reasons opposition parties lost the election.
Moving the motion, Mr Okechukwu, who is a close ally of Mr Ekweremadu, said there is a need for clemency based on public service.
“Lessons have been learnt and moving forward, we hope to perform even better.
The police said the two security officials, after snatching the car, forced the victim to transfer the N400, 000 to their account, the police spokesperson in Edo State, Chidi Nwabuzor, told reporters.
Mr Ajibola spoke on the issue when he appeared on Channels Television on Sunday.
The judge went on to grant the application for interim forfeiture giving anyone interested in the asset 14 days to show cause why the property should not be permanently forfeited to the federal government.
When the matter was mentioned on Thursday, A.A. Usman, who appeared for Mr Yakubu, said they received counter-affidavits from the defendants and he would need time to respond.
Mark Gbillah (LP, Benue) also spoke against the bill and called for better framing of the legislation.
The victim’s wife is said to have reported the incident to the management of the regulatory commission on Monday.
According to the Vice President, the Nigerian government’s annual budget is inadequate to meet national developmental needs, urging universities to “embark on aggressive marketing to meet their needs rather than blaming the government for all their inadequacies.”
Following his term as governor, Tinubu remained an influential politician.
The defendants, however, pleaded not guilty to the entire 14-count charge.
“In about four weeks, 26 days, plus or minus, that road should also be fully completed, open to traffic from Lagos to Ibadan, and beyond the toll gate up to kilometre 116.”
Mr Banerjee said the COVID-19 pandemic has created further setbacks to providing women and babies with the healthcare they need.
e. Mr. Bashir Adigun, Special Adviser to Kwara State Governor on Political Communication
“That you know to be false for the purpose of causing annoyance, inconvenience, danger, insult, injury, criminal intimidation, enmity, hatred, ill will or needless anxiety to the person of Dr. Emeka Offor and thereby commit cyberstalking punishable under Section 24 (1)(b) of the Cybercrime (Prohibition, Prevention, etc) ACT, 2015.”
The spokesperson of the Niger State Police Command, Wasiu Abiodun, told journalists in Minna, the capital of the state, that the suspects also killed on Manir, during the operation.
“So, I cannot, this evening say whether it will be approved or that it will not be approved and in any event, I am just one senator out of 109 senators that will be considering the position.”
The underwriter’s PE ratio is 3.6x, while the EPS is N0.18.
“Why can’t the retired colonel respect himself and quit the property rather than seeking unnecessary sympathy, ” he stated.
The Nigerian leader said: ”These elections saw a remarkable turnout of voters and proof that Nigeria’s democracy is maturing.
Mr Ibrahim Lamorde, ex-EFCC Chairman, also did in 2015 when he was invited to recount his side of the allegation that he failed to remit funds from recovered assets.
“They simply cut corners.
The president used the opportunity to again congratulate those who emerged winners of the February and March general elections, calling on those not satisfied with the outcome to seek redress in the courts.
He said due to a lack of transparency, many of such programmes failed.
President Buhari should not allow this.
So, the claim that this is the ‘worst’ election so far is totally unfounded,” he stated.
His media office had also debunked the audio, describing it as false.
“It is problematic when with only weeks left, officials bind the incoming government to fiscal and legal commitments that are non-essential and thereby inadvertently impose huge financial, logistic, or socio-economic responsibility on a succeeding administration,” the newspaper wrote.
“When we got to our house, we saw our gate was left open.
Meanwhile, the combined strength of the opposition is 163 seats with the PDP having 102 seats.
At official @cenbank exchange rate, each truck cost almost $2.4 million?
‘’At this point, I am just confused, because the moment the announcement was made that both notes should be legal tenders, the few new ones disappeared,” he said.
Politicians, entrepreneurs, and just anyone with good financial worth, including schoolchildren, are easy targets.
Mr Obi appeared on Arise Television where the anchor of the show, Charles Aniagolu, asked him about four times to comment on the leaked audio whether to accept or debunk the claims surrounding it but the presidential candidate initially tried to evade the question by picking up other discussions.
And after it was not opposed by the defence counsel, Panam Ntui, Justice Madugu, granted the prayer, and the 1st prosecution witness, Godwin Odu, the Deputy National Secretary of APGA, gave his testimony.
It further requested for “an inspection tour of all ongoing projects, any ongoing negotiations that are not yet frozen as contract, updated Employee List for State & Local Governments and payroll for the month of November 2022, comprehensive list of IDPs and their respective camps.”
She said insects have the potential to meet the animal protein needs of feed milling and poultry industries.
Court voids El-Rufai’s revocation of C of O of property belonging to Abacha’s family
The report highlighted that households that receive remittances invest more in agrochemical materials, and thus their farms have larger yields in Nigeria.
“The 1st petitioner (Abubakar) has been consistently contesting and losing successive presidential elections in Nigeria since 1993, whether at the party primary election level or at the general election,” he said.
I am happy for Tinubu.
“We also appeal to the Governor of Lagos State, His Excellency Babajide Sanwo-olu, to use his office as the chief security officer of Lagos State to protect Igbo lives and properties and ensure that the Igbo who are maliciously detained in various police stations are released.”
He would later go to a UBA branch in the state to complain his deposits had disappeared while he had not initiated the transactions.
Also as the President, She said the African Union permitted her to brief the African leaders on the history and mandate of the AFLPM during the extraordinary session of the assembly of the heads of states and governments in Malabo, Equatorial Guinea.
Government should respond with decisive firepower to save the people,” he added.
The formal induction is scheduled to be held on Saturday, 30 September at the Academy’s headquarters.
Encounters carried out by police are – at least in part – a response to India’s slow and dysfunctional criminal justice system.
Delivering judgment today, Justice Fadawu found him guilty, convicted and sentenced him to a year imprisonment with an option of N100, 000.00 (One Hundred Thousand Naira)
“Prince Bola Ajibola was someone I worked with as a special adviser when he was federal attorney general and one thing he demonstrated was his belief for Nigeria, and that one could serve in the public domain with integrity.
Mr Onoja was considered the leading aspirant for the APC ticket and many had tipped him to win the primary.
He was the Vice presidential candidate of the PDP in the 2019 election and had the party won, he would have been seeking reelection along with his principal, Atiku, in this year’s election.
The National Coordinator and Chief Executive Officer, AUDA-NEPAD Nigeria, Princess Akobundu, gave the advice at a one-week workshop on Climate Smart Agriculture, organised for farmers in Edo.
They have been judges for 13 to 24 years.
2023: ‘My family conspired against me to vote Peter Obi’—Gov Umahi
I couldn’t have done it without some structural support,” Mr Tinubu said.
The court then dismissed the petition.
“While these increases are still noteworthy, they are comparatively smaller than those seen in other Markets,” it said.
This is why we are focused on efficiently producing energy while minimizing the effect on the environment.
He opened the bags, “using the jiggler that Border Force officers carry for the purposes of opening locks on bags – a kind of skeleton key.”
The House of Representatives has received relevant documents from the Nigeria Communication Commission (NCC) concerning the 014 contracts it carried out under the Universal Service Provision Fund (USPF).
Secularists say “Enh, Baba”.
Mr Obi and Atiku are currently challenging the victory of Mr Tinubu at the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal in Abuja.
A resident, Malik Adepoju, urged the state government to impose a curfew on the town to douse the violence.
Mr Keyamo spoke about his several properties while responding to critics on Saturday.
Democracy is good, otherwise how can someone come from one end of the country to rule for eight years.
He needs to explain among others how seized assets by the EFCC are being sold without adherence to due process.
Dele Alake, the special adviser on communications to the president-elect, Bola Tinubu, has responded to the letter written by Nigerian novelist, Chimamanda Adichie, to President Joe Biden of the US, on the 2023 presidential election.
Report said members of the Wurkunawa and Karimjo ethnic groups suffered casualties.
Discussions are ongoing for the concession of other ports in the country, says an official.
Taye currency, which has over 208,000 followers on Instagram, is currently ranked the third richest Fuji artiste after Kwam 1 and Pasuma.
He further said that the state House of Assembly petitions were filed by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its candidate for the Orelope state constituency, Olowokere Adewale.
“We are ready for the partnership, not only with NEPZA but with the rest of Nigerians, particularly the organised private sector and the global community,” he said.
The director-general said the agency had been sensitising FCT residents on the need to abide by building approvals and the Abuja Master Plan.
“As I come before you today, I am also mindful that this would be my last official engagement with His Majesty The King and some of you as I leave office on 29 May 2023.
Because you have allayed the fear of your co-contestant, then you have a better acceptance.
“We are also very much involved in agriculture and putting all these things together, I believe that we are set for this nation and the world,” he said.
Banga served as Co-Chair of the Partnership for Central America, a coalition of private organizations that works to advance economic opportunity across underserved populations in El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras.
International development partners could also provide funding and training to design and implement anti-wildlife trafficking policies.
In Sudan, the army is in control of all airports except those in Khartoum and the town of Njala in the South Darfur region, al-Burhan told Al-Arabiya.
Meanwhile, the Commissioner for Women and Social Welfare in Anambra State, Mrs Obinabo, expressed sadness over the incident, Ms Ikeanyiownu said.
He argued that though the petitioners alleged his election was invalid by reason of non-compliance with the provisions of the Electoral Act, 2022, they failed to disclose incidents of non-compliance with the law.
A statement from the office of the president-elect signed by Tunde Rahman on Wednesday said Mr Tinubu, during the visit, will engage with investors and other key allies with the goal of marketing investment opportunities in the country and his administration’s readiness to enable a business-friendly climate through policies and regulations.
Mr Offor, whom the defendant allegedly cyberstalked, wields a lot of influence within business and political circles.
Apple wanted to charge over $900, lmao.
You cannot deny them that right.
The parliament called on the European Union and its member states “to raise individual cases, human rights concerns and blasphemy laws with the Nigerian authorities.”
It added that remittance inflows jumped by almost 10 times in one year and then declined in Nigeria, even though economic fundamentals suggest they should have increased steadily.
The earliest members of the Academy display a galaxy of some founding fathers of the United States, including John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, Alexander Hamilton, and George Washington, as well as past presidents like John F. Kennedy.
This is regardless of where the source of the mistake, mischief or negligence emanates from.”
Three killed as suspected cultists turn Sagamu into battleground
”The ten persons who sustained various degrees of injuries during the incident are currently receiving treatment at various hospitals.
There is a spiritual blessing from the throne of the Alaafin that always prospers commerce and industry here.”
Before he left the country, the president-elect met with the House of Representatives candidates for Speaker and Deputy Speaker endorsed by his party, the All Progressives Congress, Tajudeen Abbas and Benjamin Kalu, who were presented to him by the Joint Task Team of the House.
A PREMIUM TIMES journalist, Abdulkareem Mojeed, has been selected for Mongabay Y. Eva Tan Conservation Reporting Fellowship programme.
PREMIUM TIMES reported that Mr Tinubu’s victory is similarly being challenged by four other petitions by the Peoples Democratic Party, the Labour Party, the All Peoples Movement (APM) and the Action Alliance (AA) along with their respective presidential candidates.
“When the policeman said he thought my brother was saying something otherwise, my cousin said he didn’t say anything but responded that he was only delivering a message to the tea seller.
He said: “When you carelessly manage your waste and pollute your environment, they have a quiet way of getting back to your food chain and getting back to poisoning you, the polluter.
The troops also recovered one PKT gun with 48 rounds of 7.62mm x 54 ammunition, three AK 47 rifles, three magazines with 63 rounds of 7.62mm special ammunition and three motorcycles.
Ondo State government has allocated thousands of hectares currently occupied by the farmers in the reserve to a private company for the cultivation of oil palm.
It maintained that the trial court, imposing a 22-month custodial sentence, did not consider “any aggravating factors increasing the seriousness of the offence”.
The Presidential Election Petition Court had its inaugural sitting on Monday.
Other speakers at the event were Peter Nnabude, a Soil and Water conservation expert, and Adeleye Odebunmi, managing director of Lagos State Waste Management Agency, who spoke on “Safe and Sustainable Waste Management In Our Community – The Best Practice”.
“Do not forget that we have thousands of barracks across the country.
But at the same time, it would not be accurate to reduce the election to an ethnic census,” he said.
He didn’t even know it.
“Oil and gas remain a significant component of energy in the global energy mix therefore we are unlocking more opportunities across both the oil and gas value chain spanning from supply and infrastructure to the markets,” he said.
This will require smart negotiation to bargain in the continent’s best interests.
The university said the appointments were approved by the university's governing council and announced in a letter dated 28th April.
He later served as Chairman of the Nigerian Delegation to the Nigeria/Cameroon Mixed Commission on the Bakassi Peninsula; High Commissioner to the United Kingdom amongst numerous other high profile, nationally and internationally.
Not on the basis of what they bring to the table.
For Pep Guardiola and his men, they are on course for a historic treble as they are also in the run for both the FA Cup and Premier League titles.
“A new president of Ohanaeze Ndigbo has been elected through the procedure of engaging the governors of the seven states that make up Ohanaeze.
“And after counsel applied for their documents in the matter, the court, in abiding by the decision of the Court of Appeal, ordered that documents belonging to parties in the suit be released to them.
Despite being a cliche love story, the movie shines well with its natural comedy, which leaves viewers laughing.
The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has faulted the comments of President Muhammadu Buhari on reasons opposition parties lost the 2023 presidential election.
Dual citizenship issue against Tinubu a distraction – University don
“One of such solutions is the construction of mega 3,000-capacity custodial villages in six geo-political zones of the country.
Thursday makes Atiku’s first appearance in court since the five-member panel began sitting on Monday.
“It’s in the record of the Nigeria Police Force that a total of 489 major electoral infractions occurred during the February 25 and March 18 rounds of elections, leading to the arrest of 781 offenders and the recovery of 66 assorted firearms.
At the rerun in the one polling unit, 1,596 persons collected the Permanent but only 363 turned up to vote.
He said all the four new appointees are trained lawyers.
Several persons have been convicted of child trafficking across the country.
Mr Owuru begged the court to order an “interim placeholder” administration pending the hearing and determination of his substantive appeal on the constitutional interpretation of the suit.
“She said their kidnappers fled when the police were closing in on them, giving the couple the opportunity to escape in different directions,” he said
OtunbaApesin from the stock of Oduduwa
Benue APC transition committee, state govt bicker over delayed handover reports
Several residents were killed in the attack.
Media reports had claimed that a FHC in Lagos had ordered that exhibits and documents in a suit marked: FHC/L/251C/16, filed by the EFCC against former Minister of State for Finance, Nenandi Usman, Mr Fani-Kayode and others be released back to the commission to enable it file fresh charges against the defendants in the Abuja division of the court.
“The committee was charged with finding ways of identifying and regularising only those properties located in positions that do not pose a direct and critical challenge to airport safety and Security,” it said.
Mr Buhari recalled that one of the joys and highlights of his administration had been the annual ritual of receiving corps members in his country home in Daura, Katsina State, during Eid-el-Fitr Sallah and asking about their welfare.
Mr Shehu also said the council approved a contract for the procurement of 19 vehicles for the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) for the sum of one billion naira.
Speaking at a press conference in Bauchi Tuesday afternoon, Aliyu Hasaan – Adamu, the ward party secretary, said the ward executives have informed the local government leadership of the party of their decision to suspend Mr Misau.
She said there are over three million Nigerians residing in Sudan and efforts are being made to evacuate as many of them as possible, if the war persists.
The firm’s PE ratio as of Friday was 4.9x, while the EPS is N3.5.
“As it is now, we used the money that we have gotten from the people in addition to what we had to secure the release of these four students..."
“Then, we have Kaduna to Zaria, which is about 70-something kilometres.
They too have brought their own witnesses to bolster their argument.
It concluded the governorship election in Kebbi and Adamawa states, as well as states and national assembly legislative seats in other states.
Summits are distinct from regular diplomatic efforts as they blur the lines between symbolic and substantive.
Ex-Labour Minister, Musa Gwadabe, is dead
“Those who are taking this action are members of the party who have since been suspended, and as at the time they took this action, their suspension had not been lifted.
A second batch has also set out for Egypt, according to the Nigerian government.
“On the whole, I grant the Plaintiff’s motion dated 17/12/2020 and nullify the purported Notice of revocation of Certificate of Occupancy No.
“We have been meeting on our own, in one way or the other, even in our larger minority caucus.
Form 48 which is the notice of consequence of disobedience of court orders reads in part: “Unless you obey the orders of the court contained on the reverse side of this process you shall be deemed to have disobeyed the orders of the court and shall be liable to committed to prison for contempt.”
“The ‘US Company’, Atlanta Global Resources Inc., has no expertise nor experience in any form of construction, let alone Railway construction.
Akwaihedi, a community in Anambra State, shares boundaries with communities in Imo, another state in the South-east.
The Police Service Commission (PSC) says it has approved the payment of six months’ salaries for the police personnel recruited last year.
He commended the outgoing governors for their solidarity, comradeship and dedication to moving the party forward.
Swiftly followed thereafter by a television tirade of intimidation, it strikes one as more than the mere antics by the mentally deranged.
“The key messages of this year’s event centre on the need for governments and their partners to rethink mobility.
Before her appointment, she was Acting Vice President for the complex, and Director General of the Bank’s Business Development and Delivery Office for the West Africa Region.
He noted that the doctors cannot declare a nationwide strike because some states were owing their members, pointing out that the federal government cannot also dabble into the issue, being a state matter.
Voter turnout in each of Benue, Kano, Kebbi, Kwara, and Nasarawa states was 29 per cent.
More so, this is a constitutional matter.
The workshop aims to create a forum for stakeholders to share their experiences and knowledge.
BEN 3, so di gbere naa nu.
The accused persons were driven into the court premises in a black police Hilux van, under tight security.
Mrs Binani thus needed an almost 100 per cent turnout of voters and about 90 per cent votes for her in the 69 units to emerge the winner.
A former deputy governor of Akwa Ibom State, Nsima Ekere has blamed the former minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Godswill Akpabio for the perennial crisis rocking the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Akwa Ibom State.
Dr Yusuf is a journalist, trainer and mass communication lecturer at Bayero University, Kano.
Governor Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi State has begged for forgiveness from the state workers for unknowingly or otherwise stepping on some of their toes.
IGP meets predecessors on better policing
Shehu Sani, Charly Boy disagree with Soyinka over comments against “Obidients”
He told PREMIUM TIMES that the destruction had to do with the ongoing remapping of the area.
We are coming to make a House devoid of political leaning but with respect to the party in power.
The panels are expected to feature agricultural experts across the value chain including farmers, processors, climate change experts, and media experts.
The accused officer was transferred from Lagos to Zamfara after he allegedly committed the murder, a lawyer said.
The APP presidential candidate, Nnadi Osita, polled 12,839 votes, a far cry from the 8.8 million votes received by Mr Tinubu.
Easter teaches us that honesty and integrity are values that we must seek and uphold if we want to build a better Nigeria,” he said.
NAFDAC said Nigeria expects to get at least 100,000 doses of the vaccine in donations soon.
Affected candidates, whose inability to take tests was not their fault, are now to sit the test on Saturday, 6th May, JAMB spokesperson Fabian Benjamin said in a statement on Monday.
Therefore, fellow Biafrans, this 30th May 2023 is another sacrosanct day to remember our fallen heroes, heroines and comrades who died in defence of our land and for the birth of the Biafra Nation.
In his response, Segun, 46, a Lagos State Judiciary worker, admitted to infidelity.
“In some instances, yes,” Murray replied.
Olawale Fapohunda, SAN – CHAIRMAN
A professor of law at the University of Lagos, Yemi Oke, says there is no Nigerian law that bars an elective officeholder from having dual citizenship.
This is contained in a statement by the board’s head of public affairs and protocol, Fabian Benjamin.
“In the spirit of Ramadan, Muslims are reminded that Zakatul Fitr is a compulsory food levy imposed on privileged Muslims, to be given to the less privileged in the society.
Fear in Abuja community as terrorists abduct 29 villagers overnight
Nigeria’s debt profile stood at N46.25 trillion in December 2022, recording an increase of about seven trillion Naira from the 2021 debt figures.
“I am embarrassed by the application my lord,” the lawyer said of Mr Joseph’s application that everyone not connected to Mr Kyari’s case, including lawyers and journalists be cleared out of the courtroom.
“We thank God and specially the good people of Osun for standing by their resolve to elect Senator Adeleke of the PDP as the governor of the state.
With less than 37 days left in office, the president recounted his leadership roles in the country for more than forty years, serving variously as a military officer, military governor, minister, and Head of State, and returning as a democratically elected President in 2015.
They are 3 in number, attached to RRS, Rivers State,” Mr Adejobi wrote on the social media site.
Mr Hundeyin stated that the DPO was removed for his lack of supervision of his operatives.
Spending from remittances creates local jobs in non-tradable sectors such as construction,” the report said.
The area has witnessed frequent clashes among rival cult groups in the past, the latest, this newspaper gathered, is between Klaans and Black Axe who are fighting over the control of toll collection at bus parks.
By 2023, however, the figure has risen to 148 private universities, surpassing the number of federal and state universities put together.
It also advises that European countries investing in increased gas production and/or exports from Nigeria “also invest into renewable energy access in Nigeria, especially in communities that host oil and gas facilities.”
“Almost 600,000 are on the brink of catastrophe.
Like the men’s tournament, the World Cup features a month-long competition that begins with group-stage matches and ends with the knockout stage.
How Tinubu asked me to step down for Gbajabiamila in 2019 — Betara
I will deploy all diplomacy and tact to ensure that this light we see will not dim on us.
It was not immediately clear the reason for the crisis this time or the groups involved.
The bank’s impairment charge, which accounts for the cash it provisioned for defaults by borrowers, totalled N3.2 billion in contrast to a net impairment reversal of N34 million a year earlier.
He also saluted the roles played by the international and domestic election observers, the Media, Organised ll Civil Society and all well-meaning Nigerians in ensuring that the mandate of the people freely given to the PDP and Fintiri, was not hijacked by supplanters.
The Court of Appeal, Abuja, on 13 October, held that the IPOB leader was extra-ordinarily renditioned to Nigeria and that the action was a flagrant violation of the country’s extradition treaty and also a breach of his fundamental human rights.
“The National Assembly and all the 36 State Assemblies had spent 3 years and expended billions of Naira considering a total of 68 Bills.
In his remarks, Mr Muhammad said the purpose of the meeting was to brief Mr Yari on how far the group had gone in terms of mobilisation, adding that it achieved over 70 per cent of the work.
Forbes noted that the 25 richest people in the world are now worth a collective $2.1 trillion, down a combined $200 billion from $2.3 trillion in 2022.
“We have lost some sweepers to accidents, some have been raped while others have been robbed of their valuables, including phones,” she narrated.
Mr Jonathan wished all Nigerians and all Christians happy Easter.
On his seventieth trip around the sun!
The Nigeria Army, on Wednesday, completed pre-deployment training for 172 troops for a peacekeeping mission in Guinea Bissau.
Supreme Court Verdict: Oyetola concedes, congratulates Governor Adeleke
When the motion was put to question by the Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila, members voted overwhelmingly in support of it.
Mr Haruna said that a funeral prayer for the deceased was held Saturday afternoon at the National Mosque in Abuja.
There are worries about Mr Biden’s age; at 81 (by November), he is the US’s oldest president.
Among those to receive the certificates are Governor Aminu Tambuwal who was elected the senator to represent Sokoto South and his predecessor, Aliyu Wamakko, who was re-elected to represent Sokoto North.
“The action of the respondent qualifies as excessiveness” as it had ascribed to itself the judicial and executive powers.
The offences, according to the EFCC, contravene the provisions of Sections 15 (1d), 16(1d) and 18 of the Money Laundering Act, 2004 and 2011.
Alleged Shares Mismanagement: Ex-Western Region minister’s estate files N2bn suit against Israeli firm
Mr Apapa had declared himself as the party’s national chairman in the wake of a fresh legal crisis rocking the party and took over the national secretariat of the party.
Mr Ekpenyong, however, filed a reply on points of law, among others, to counter their arguments, which was substantially upheld.
The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has urged the Federal High Court in Lagos to reject an application by a former Executive Director of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Ezekiel Agaba, seeking to be excused from a N1.1 billion fraud trial.
While appealing to the lawmakers to be calm, the APC national chairman said the contributions of Bola Tinubu were, however, critical on the issue of the 10th National Assembly.
The Labour Party in Nigeria had in a statement on Wednesday said the UK immigration officials arrested and detained Mr Obi, its presidential candidate, in London, over alleged impersonation during Easter.
The LP spokesperson said while the party continues to examine any dubious or political motive on the part of the perpetrators of the identity theft, it had every confidence in the ability of the British authorities to resolve the matter to a conclusion.
Allies-turned-foes like Babachir Lawal, a former secretary to the government of the federation, and Yakubu Dogara, a former speaker of the House of Representatives, vehemently campaigned against Mr Tinubu to “serve as deterrent to anyone contemplating such arrangement in the future.”
In August 2020, he featured Teni and Toby Grey on his album ‘Fuji the Sound’, which he claimed redefines the genre’s outlook.
Aregbesola said he had no doubt that the facility would go a long way in addressing the medical concerns of inmates and correctional service personnel.
The trial Crown Court in Woolwich had sentenced the offender to a suspended sentence order, comprising a custodial term of 22 months, suspended for 12 months, with a two-month electronic curfew between 7.00 p.m. and 7.00 a.m.
Granted that Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, Nigerian-born Underwear-Bomber and his radicalism reached its metastasis in the west, the ground for its flowering was burrowed on the soil of Africa.
[Photo credit: Daily Post]“Some of the factors that feed it are linked to ethnicity and religious bigotry.
A group of newly elected members of the House of Representatives supporting Muktar Betara for the Speakership position, have commenced a tour of the South-east zone to canvass support for the Borno lawmaker.
Discussions were frank and creative.
According to the NCDC, from week 1 to week 13 2023, 846 confirmed infections and 148 deaths were reported with a case fatality rate (CFR) of 17.5 per cent which is lower than the CFR for the same period in 2022 (19.1 per cent).
President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday in Abuja approved the partial exclusion of the Ministry of Finance Incorporated (MOFI) from the Treasury Single Account (TSA).
He appealed to his colleagues to grant him the opportunity of speaking to them physically after the order.
The statement also said that Mr Tinubu hopes to convince them of Nigeria’s readiness to do business under his leadership through mutually-beneficial partnerships premised on job creation and skills acquisition.
It was tough and turbulent.
“During our short stay, we appointed ward and local government area committees for the purposes of the election.
Mr Abdulmumin said the CBN was committed to supplying the “approved indent” for the smooth running of the economy.
But at Wednesday’s proceedings, APP’s lawyer, Obed Agu, informed the court that he filed a notice of withdrawal of the petition on 9 May.
So, we have to find a way of giving them the same exam.
They have not denied the fact that there is tampering of the rest by them or others at their instance.
Typical of how other companies were defrauded, the plea agreement submitted to the trial court revealed how Mr Ponle’s co-schemers defrauded Victim Company B by first gaining unauthorised access to the firm’s email account on or before 16 January 2019.
The IPOB spokesperson said the secessionist group suspects that the recent political developments and alleged ethnic profiling of Ndigbo in Nigeria were also playing out in the case of the IPOB leader.
Mrs Fajana also noted that the applicant must ensure that the pathologist of the family of the deceased should be granted access as an observer during the consultation.
All attention, according to the minister, would now be focused on the outstanding work between Otedola Bridge and Berger (both bounds).
Regarding the supposed 17 million housing deficit, the minister said he went the extra mile to verify that claim.
Having felt the bags, the judge said, Mr Curtis considered that they contained boxes and decided to investigate further.
On May 9 and 10, Gobeze appeared before the Lideta branch of the Federal High Court in Addis Ababa, where police accused him of terrorism...
You deploy all measures to lobby and show a sense of brotherhood to the men, so that they will know that you are not in this race to stomp them out of the way.
“This is a matter of great concern because long after an election is over, and long after the leading contenders have sheathed their swords, the rhetoric, the words and the means used to compete can have adverse long-term effects on society,” he said.
But still, it doesn’t stop us from continuing to protect ourselves, especially by through hand washing, and keeping to the basic principles of being able to take preventive measures around COVID-19 and every other viral disease.”
JAMB said the notification slips would contain their examination centres, time and date of examination and other essential details.
He also accused the president of starving the state of funds and manipulating the recent elections in the state to favour his party, the All Progressives Congress (APC).
The Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, in a 90-page document released on Sunday in Abuja said the remarkable interventions had impacted positively the changes in the paramilitary.
Inter had won the first leg 2-0 before completing the job at San Siro on Tuesday.
Apparently referring to the chairperson of the NDDC board, the commission’s Director of Corporate Communication, Ibitoye Abosede said some persons may have misconstrued the MOU to mean Engineering, Procurement, Construction contract.
“The court does not have the power to remand the defendant in police custody.
A former Speaker of the lower chamber, the House of Representatives, he will be inaugurated as a senator days after stepping down as governor of Sokoto State on 29 May.
The demands include full implementation of the Consolidated Legislative Salary Structure CONLESS to Staffers in the State House of Assembly and House of Assembly Service Commission.
Obeagu Awkunanaw, a community in Enugu South Local Government of Enugu State, has protested against the state government’s plan to demolish houses in the community.
The decision sent Susan back to an estranged wife, living with her grandparents; her father tried to get her to leave her grandparents and return to him, but she resisted.
Allocating more funds for wildlife crime investigation and capacity building is vital to preventing and disrupting wildlife crime.
The EFCC counsel, Suleiman Suleiman, told an Ikeja Special Offences Court that the prosecution, in collaboration with its international partners, had secured the arrest of Mompha.
He held that the fines imposed by the NBC as punishment for commission of various offences under its code were contrary to the law and hereby declared as unconstitutional, null and void.
“The holy book says I will bless the works of your hands, so for our hands to be blessed, we should know how to use our hands to carry out work that will yield profit,’ he said.
They feel that they are not carried along like other regions.
This would further inspire confidence from domestic and foreign investors and put an end to ways and means financing of FGN expenditure.
Many lawmakers who opposed the president’s request either said it was against the laws or wondered why the National Assembly was not notified when the amount was taken from the Central Bank.
You deployed the revolutionary TaxPro Max: FIRS’ homegrown digital platform for tax administration which allows taxpayers to register, file returns and pay their taxes easily from any location other than their respective tax offices.
He said the number of accredited voters, which was 43,881, was higher than the margin of lead between the two top runners.
The programmes through which the funds were disbursed include the N-Power, Government Enterprise and Empowerment Programme (GEEP), National Home-Grown School Feeding Programme (NHGSFP), and Trader Moni programme.
Rotimi Amaechi, the immediate past minister of transportation, had after the governorship election, alleged that the chairman of INEC, Mahmood Yakubu, has the backing of the camps of Messrs Tinubu and Wike.
Mr Martins said that the NWC also dissolved the Bayelsa chapter and called for a caretaker committee to review allegations bordering on gross misconduct that led to the unimpressive performance of the party at the general elections.
“In addition to the established and traditional Islamic leaders in each locality, the following members of the National Moon-Sighting Committee (NMSC) can be contacted to report any credible and positive sighting of the crescent of Shawwal 1444 AH:
“Today, we are about 69 in number and it is still growing.
Like other states in Nigeria’s South-east, security has deteriorated in Anambra State with frequent attacks by armed persons.
The passion of Jesus Christ is the story of our lives with its ebbs and flows.
Muslims pilgrims agency NAHCON announces 2023 Hajj fare
Is Hatred our Political Inheritance?
On 14 March, the judge, Donatus Okorowo of the Federal High Court, Abuja, granted the petitioners’ ex parte for substituted service of the petition and other processes in the case on the respondents resident outside Nigeria.
It also urged the commission to take immediate action on the petition.
Mr Mohammed said the election was conducted against the backdrop of fuel shortage, mounting insecurity and poorly timed cash swap policy.
It is not certain if he has arrived Abuja.
The decision followed an appeal filed by Mrs Usman against the lower court on jurisdictional grounds.
He warned final-year students against plagiarism, stressing that the university librarian had been directed to carry out plagiarism tests on all research works by the students and staff of the institution.
The programme is built around the ECOWAS Protocol of Free Movement of Persons, Right of Residence and Right of Establishment and is designed in two phases with a combined financing of $395.1 million.
The consequences of these blocked funds are: cheap tickets are not available in Nigeria because taxes and inflation will have eroded the profit when the funds are kept for a very long time.
”May the soul of Peter Pan rest in peace,” the president prayed.
Others include four different types of motorcycles, police caps and belts, military camouflage uniforms, one black travelling bag and a written phone number believed to be that of a kidnap or armed robbery victim.
Again, the trial had since commenced in the case and witnesses were still giving evidence before the court.
Hours ago, gunmen, suspected to be IPOB members enforcing a sit-at-home order, shot a chief security officer of a commercial bank at Nkwo Market in the Ihiala Council Area of the state.
He also served as deputy director, Academic Planning from 2015 to 2021 as well as Head of the Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology from 2018 to 2023.
The lawyer said that he spoke to the spokesperson of the police in Lagos, Benjamin Hundeyin, but he was “unable to render any assistance.”
“The flood did good damage to properties including their shelters and the intervention will go a long way to ameliorate the suffering.”
But according to his plea agreement, he acknowledged owing a total of $8,038,214,.99 in restitution to seven victim companies in the amounts stated as follows:
12:40pm: APC’s lawyer, Lateef Fagbemi, announces appearance.
• Napoleon Binkap Bali Plateau South
Mr Odu, led in evidence by Mr Rinasonte, said he emerged the deputy national secretary of APGA at the party’s convention held in Awka, Anambra State, on 31 May 2019.
"You have to be firm.
The police, on Mr Ahamefula’s invitation, arrested Mr Ohadoma and hurriedly charged him before a magistrate for robbery for seizing the phone.
The INEC returning officer, Sani Ibrahim, a professor, said Mr Doguwa scored the highest number of votes cast, 41,573, to defeat his closest rival of the New Nigeria People Party (NNPP) Yushau Salisu, who got 34,831 votes.
However, it is definitely not his first time adjudicating on an election petition or political case.
My attention has been drawn to a statement credited to the Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Malam Abdulrasheed Bawa, in which he claimed he has sent invitations to all outgoing Governors and Commissioners in a bid to commence investigation into alleged corruption and abuse of office perpetrated by them while in office.
This was a sequel to a motion moved by Abba Moro (PDP, Benue South) at the plenary session on Wednesday.
He offloaded the shares via two transactions executed on different dates
The group urged the governor to set up a reconciliation commission and pay compensations to the families of the affected victims.
“It appears the entire book is a response to the controversies, the travails Malami has had to face in the position that destiny thrusts upon him,” the book reviewer said.
Punch newspaper reported that the victim, Sylvester Efeurhobo, was shot dead by assailants who stormed his country home in Agbarho, Ughelli North Local Government Area of the state.
Naira Scarcity: Emefiele committed crime against humanity, says Soyinka
The children were crying.
“I want to condemn the endorsement in its entity because it was done out of ignorance.
He added that shortage of water, flooding, water pollution, excess heat, among others, had been a result of climate change effect in acquaculture practices.
Its PE ratio is 3.9x at the moment, while its EPS is N4.83.
“We can pick the candidate from among ourselves but if we all sit down and decided on it.
Mr Ari also claimed to have declared Ms Dahiru, popularly called Binani, of the All Progressives Congress (APC) winner of the election because she polled 428,173 votes.
Forgery case against APC chairman
Nigeria’s electoral commission, INEC, has denied allegations that its officials deployed for election duty in Adamawa State visited the state government house and received a list of returning officers from ‘a candidate participating in the elections’.
• Daniel Justus Olugbenga – Ogun East
“Our successes on security, economy, infrastructure, new oil frontier basins, landmark legal reforms as well as food sufficiency, among others, were possible because of the support of Nigerians.
A minute later, the midfielder’s effort was saved by Onana.
Vitafoam makes the cut for trading close to its lowest level in 52 weeks and also for trading below its real value.
The governor of Benue State, Samuel Ortom, has replied the presidency on the security situation in the state, insisting that President Muhammadu Buhari endorsed the intractable killings of persons there.
Similarly, a convoy of clearly marked US diplomatic vehicles were attacked with a preliminary report linking the assailants to the RSF.
When the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) reversed its restriction on currency circulation and Nigerians were beginning to get naira notes, residents of Oron and the other local government areas were still at the mercy of POS operators who were selling naira notes at unbelievable rates.
“The North-west gave the party the highest votes in the North with Kano State consistently giving APC the highest vote per state in every election since the formation of the party.
If I see any government money, I swear to God I’ll steal it,” the frustrated staff said.
But the police accused Mr Njoku of forging the Supreme Court’s judgement on the APGA leadership tussle.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) had earlier gathered that the driver was suspected to be an internet fraudster popularly known as ‘Yahoo boy’.
For the seriously committed, it requires pulling back the horns a little in order to regroup, rethink and resurge.
“We understand how important it is to interact with our readers and assess their preferences.
Revolution is not about lining up behind the nearest available symbol.
CPJ’s research on press freedom in Nigeria, showing years of attacks on members of the press—including killings—strongly contradicts comments by Attorney General and Minister of Justice Abubakar Malami...
He said this also calls for urgent actions to strengthen current efforts by all stakeholders, to complement the government’s activities, and reverse the ugly trend.
President Buhari should not heed their inordinate and unpatriotic plan.
“I think that the exercise we are doing today is not really just about this location.
But we believe that we are still far from, we are still short on it, I must say.
Top Trending ‘Who is’ Questions from January to March 2023
He recalled how he could only get cash from a banker when he needed money at the height of the cash crunch.
There are also three other respondents – C&D (Nigeria) Limited, Shari Arison, and Naty Saidoff – who are connected to the controlling shares of the other firms intricately linked to the ownership of Solel Boneh.
I ask that they remain gracious to him even in this situation.”
“The responsibility lies in the president to first condemn the dastardly act, which we expect him to do so and immediately go ahead to protect lives and properties which is the primary responsibility of the government.
According to the statement, Peter Obi was harassed by London immigration officials and placed in detention where he spent the Easter holidays.
It will not only affect you, now they are going to render thousands of people unemployed.
The Head of Service of the Federation, Folashade Yemi-Esan, on 29 March, announced the president’s approval of the appointment of the six permanent secretaries who were successful in the selection process conducted by her office.
Your predecessor, Senator Pius Anyim, was the Senate President when he led the National Assembly to veto President Olusegun Obasanjo’s veto of the Order of Precedence Act in 2000.
It is unclear who Mr Ikpeazu supported in the election.
Atiku, who came second in the election, is challenging Mr Tinubu’s victory through his petition, which he, alongside his party, filed at the Presidential Election Petition Court.
They are reminded that every misconduct against the Igbo pantheon or the Imeobi Ohanaeze has its corresponding inevitable consequences.”
The court sentenced the convict to three years in jail for count 1, five years for count 2, eight years for count 3, eight years for count 4, two years for count 5, five years for count 6, and eight years for count seven.
I love the dance, the music, the culture.
It was ranked as the number one think tank on the 2020 Global Go-To Think Tank Index published by the Think Tanks and Civil Societies Programme of the University of Pennsylvania.
In a similar recognition earlier in the week, (Thursday 4 May), the FIRS boss was named the winner of the BusinessDay Excellence in Public Service Award 2022, at the BusinessDay States Competitiveness And Good Governance Awards 2022.
The presidency has reacted to Tuesday’s judgement of the Federal High Court in Abuja reinstating Ifeanyi Ararume as the non-executive chairman of the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited (NNPCL).
“We are already achieving very amiable results in the domestic intake of LPG and CNG in several small and medium scale industries across the country,” he said.
In his remark, the Country Director, BMGF, Nigeria, Jeremie Zoungrana, said the foundation has one overarching goal, and that it is to create a world where every person has the opportunity to live a healthy and productive life.
Why we sealed Abuja’s Garki International Market – AEPB
Certainly, this is not the vision that produced the APC.
Aviation workers’ strike results in gridlocks around Lagos airport
He is currently the presiding justice of the division of the court in Asaba, Delta State.
“Chimamanda had pinned her hopes on a possible Obi victory partly on predictions of flawed opinion polls some of which were predicated on statistically negligible and thus unreliable sample sizes and others on no discernible empirical basis whatsoever.
Coincidentally, a Nigerian court, in a judgement on Wednesday, invalidated NBC’s power of to impose fines on the country’s broadcast stations.
“Recognising that Easter is about renewed hope and a glorious future, I urge all Nigerians to continue to be confident and believe strongly in our country for better seasons ahead.”
The Advocacy Committee is headed by IPI Nigeria’s Legal Adviser, Tobi Soniyi.
In the South-south he polled – 799,957
“I will rather delay and have due process followed and then we know that if anybody decides to go to court after that, the exercise will be a nullity.
He kept the ship steady, and paved the way for his successor, President-elect Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, to take the reins at the end of this month and build upon what he has already achieved.
She said: “When we were working on the 2023 Medium Term Expenditure Framework and the Appropriation Act, we made that provision to enable us exit fuel subsidy by June 2023.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that at the resumed trial, the defendants told the court that their lawyer, Mr Uzukwu, embarked on a trip, adding that they were in the process of getting another lawyer.
Group asks Tinubu to compensate North-west with senate pesidency
UPDATED: INEC HQ rejects declaration of Binani as winner of Adamawa governorship election
A relation of the deceased, Nasiru Gwadabe, confirmed the incident to SOLACEBASE, an online Newspaper, that he died on Tuesday in an hospital in a Kano.
Before his elevation to the Court of Appeal, he served as a judge of the Bayelsa State High Court for eight years, dating back to his appointment on 21 March 2014.
The black connoisseur who struck first, black gold beneath waters, and coined oil
According to him, Mr Tinubu holds dual citizenship of Nigeria and Guinea, having voluntarily acquired the citizenship of the Republic of Guinea.
She said he also visited her in Paynesville.
Prayer were offered for peace in the country, the successful end of term of the president and for the success of the incoming administration.
Mr Alia noted that the state owes backlog of salaries, pensions and gratuities and he hopes to remain focus and tackle the myriad of issues on his desk when he takes over office on May 29.
Top government functionaries poured praises on Mr Malami for “embodying the virtues of integrity, humility and service to country.”
The support, prayers and goodwill have greatly helped the efforts deployed towards the safe release of our brother and leader.
Who is Tony Elumelu?
This newspaper reported how fighting erupted in Khartoum on Saturday between the Sudanese army and the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF) over control of the troubled country.
In Ndiogadoshi playground, polling unit 017 ward 02 in Ikwo Local Government Area, NAN reports that INEC officials arrived with materials at 9:25 a.m.
“One thing that is admirable about the vice president is his passion for excellence in everything that he is involved with.
The theme for this year’s conference is: “Social Dynamics, Value Orientation, and Nigeria’s Future: The Need for Strong Institutions.”
Mr Njoku, in an interview with journalists shortly after the proceeding, said Mr Rinamsomte’s allegations against him were baseless.
The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) declared the elections inconclusive in the areas due to violence and irregularities.
Mr Kalu was first arrested in 2015 and was later charged over his separatist campaigns for the independent Biafra Republic comprising mainly the Igbo-dominated South-east region.
Since its inception, it has always been a one-off, pre-election routine.
In his response to INEC’s failure to upload election results in real-time from the 176,974 polling stations across Nigeria to the electoral umpire’s electronic portal, Mr Tinubu argued INEC’s “guidelines” for the conduct of the polls were not statutory.
In his comment, the Executive Director of the NGO, the Islamic Centre for Communication and Creative Thought (ItrippleCT), Abdulrasak Ibrahim, commended the NSCDC for doing a ‘fantastic’ job by swinging into action to arrest the suspect.
‘‘This isn’t a laughing matter.
His media aide, Femi Adesina, stated in Abuja on Monday that the summit was convened by President Nana Akuffo-Addo of Ghana.
Off-cycle elections were conducted in Ondo, Osun, and Ekiti states before this year’s elections.
“The party stands completely united behind the leadership of our National Chairman, Adamu, and we are all standing together.
The electoral umpire challenged Mr Obi and his party to prove the contrary.
The Plateau State Police Command on Wednesday said it arrested five persons suspected to have participated in the attack launched on Tuesday morning in two villages in Mangu Local Government.
To find suitable candidates for the two positions, the bloc of minority parties set up a 13-man committee drawn from different parties.
Mr Waive says, if elected, he will keep an open door policy.
He also said the Commissioner of Police, Musa Garba, commended the gallantry and professionalism exhibited by the personnel.
Lassa Fever: Nigeria records over 4,000 suspected infections in 2023
Mr Fashola said this at the pre-inspection of the completed Loko-Oweto Bridge in Nasarawa State on Wednesday.
In the three largest states based on voter registration — Lagos, Kano and Rivers — less than a third of the eligible population voted.
”The Human Rights Commission adjudged the government liable to pay about N135 million to the family of the victims of the alleged infractions.”
He appealed to his subjects to use the intervention for what it was intended for and called on other organisations to intervene in community projects too.
“The Senate President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria will come from the South-south and no other person than the former governor of Akwa Ibom , the uncommon governor, , the uncommon minister who will be the uncommon president of the senate,” he said.
“The Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development, Engr.
Two of my brother-governors and I took the Federal Government to court over this ill-advised policy and fought resolutely until we got a respite for our people from Emefiele and company.
With our collective efforts and support, Ndigbo will rise again.
Mr Alao said the “no work, no pay” policy could not force the doctors to return to work.
According to Mr Mustapha, the inauguration committee of the council has reached advanced stage in its preparation for the peaceful and orderly transfer of power on 29 May.
The Independent National Electoral Commissioner (INEC) has declared Governor Ahmadu Fintiri of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) winner of the governorship election in Adamawa State.
Police in Ebonyi State on Sunday said they rescued a kidnap victim and killed one suspect in the state.
Elsewhere in the south-west, APC’s Babajide Sanwo-Olu and Dapo Abiodun were re-elected for a second term in Lagos and Ogun state respectively.
In Dange-Shuni/Tureta/Bodinga Federal Constituency Prof. Chika Muhammad, the INEC Returning Officer, declared Shehu Nasiru of the APC as the winner with 40,994 votes.
He said at that stage that he felt very remorseful but, when interviewed, denied assaulting the little boy, his son or any of his children with a stick or belt and denied putting him in a stressed position.
Ahead of the 29 May handover, the Enugu State Governor-elect, Peter Mbah, has inaugurated over 60 Transition Committee members.
This was closely followed by the destruction of six hectares of cannabis farm in the Uso forest in the state on Thursday 13th April.
President Buhari celebrates Mike Adenuga Jnr at 70
“I want to appeal to commuters on that road for continuous patience and understanding: it is a difficult project to execute because it is perhaps one of the busiest roads in the country.
He published his telephone number and asked the victims to contact him.
The APC has never been the dominant party at the polls in the last two regions mentioned above.
In the affidavit sworn to by Adeolu Oyinlola, Executive Director of ASRADI, the applicant urged the court to hear and determine the request “before the swearing-in of Bola Ahmed Tinubu as the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria on 29 May 2023.”
Governor Douye Diri has emerged winner of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship primary to contest the Bayelsa governorship seat on 11 November.
On its own, that is sufficiently scary.
“This is the commencement of a process that will lead to the naturalization of foreigners who are of black origin to becoming Nigerians and particularly Yoruba sons and daughters.
The party, therefore, argued that the tribunal lacked the requisite jurisdiction to entertain pre-election complaints embedded in the petition as presently constituted, among other arguments.
Mrs Odunlani-Omisanya said the accident involved a vehicle and a commercial motorcycle.
The attacks often target government officials, security agencies and their facilities.
The Nigerian government has approved the establishment of 37 new private universities located in various parts of the country.
Mr Oyetola says the verdict of the court was against the wish of his party's members and supporters, but he accepted it in the interest of peace and development of Osun State.
“With the myriad of challenges at the time, we knew it was going to be onerous, yet not insurmountable.
In the North-Central, 4.56 million people voted and APC’s Mr Tinubu got 1.7 million (41 per cent) of the total votes.
He said the farmers were surprised when on 18 April hundreds of armed men stormed the forest shooting and scaring away the farmers.
Giving a breakdown of the composition of female lawyers in the various sectors of the legal profession, it said: “The country’s public sector has the highest representation of women in senior positions, with 61 per cent of practitioners being female, followed by the corporate sector, with 55 per cent.
How more wrong could anyone be?” he asked.
Adamawa 2023: NSCDC summons commander for alleged role in illegal declaration of ‘winner’
An export of a maximum of 400 megawatts to the European energy grid had been agreed.
The party has picked Dino Melaye, a former senator from Mr Adeyemi’s zone, as its candidate for the forthcoming 11 November governorship election.
Any restrictions on freedom of expression must meet the requirements of legality, necessity, and proportionality.”
“It needs to be stated at this point that the dispute being who should be the acting national chairman of the 1st Respondent, APGA and whether the Chairman, Chief Victor Oye was validly replaced are within the confines of the internal affairs of the 1st Respondent which is not justiciable.’’
At the resumed hearing, Nnamdi Kanu’s lawyer, Mike Ozekhome, a SAN, informed the court of his client’s application for bail and another one requesting his transfer to Kuje correctional facility in Abuja in case he is denied bail.
Nobel laureate, Wole Soyinka, had criticised the conduct of the supporters of the former presidential candidate of the Labour Party, Peter Obi, while Chimamanda Adichie had urged US President Joe Biden not to congratulate President-elect Bola Tinubu.
Could similar sentiments motivate other African countries to consider withdrawal from the ICC?
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that at the resumed trial at the magistrate’s court in Zuba, FCT, Abuja on Tuesday, the magistrate, Abdulaziz Ismail, drew attention to a letter by a defence lawyer, Uche Uzukwu, seeking an adjournment of the trial.
The doctors had downed tools in the early hours of Wednesday following the failure of the Nigerian government to meet its demands.
Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) scored 368 votes while Rabiu Kwankwaso of the New Nigeria Peoples Party got 161 votes, this newspaper had reported.
He said Nigeria’s huge investment in gas infrastructure is hinged on her growing natural gas reserves, thus supporting the nation’s aspiration to create Africa’s biggest industrial hub powered by low-carbon energy.
Indirect primary election is the mode where party members elect delegates who in turn elect the party’s candidates on their behalf.
Qosim Suleiman is a reporter at Premium Times in partnership with Report for the World, which matches local newsrooms with talented emerging journalists to report on under-covered issues around the globe.Inline image
“The Management of INEC Rivers State, therefore, wishes to assure all applicants and the general public that the Commission is committed to discharging its constitutional and lawful duties without preferences or bias, and do request the cooperation and understanding of all parties and the general public to enable us serve you better,” Mr Sinikiem said.
The governor said he was more interested in contributing to the development of Nigeria than jostling for positions.
Lassa Fever: Nigeria records two deaths, 39 infections in one week
Mr Akpabio is one of the leading aspirants for the senate president in the 10th National Assembly.
She thanked the medical personnel for their effort and sacrifices both during and after the mission.
Due to technical hitches recorded in some of the accredited computer-based test centres, JAMB announced a rescheduling of tests for affected candidates.
It must be a lie, at least for the House of Representatives.
All the109 senatorial districts now have representatives in the upper chamber of the National Assembly.
The Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) and Nigeria Agricultural Quarantine Service (NAQS) came second and third respectively.
He directed that the intensive patrols should cover worship centres, train stations, highways, motor parks, airports, waterways, recreation centres, banks and other financial institutions.
The woman faces deportation after a crucial ruling in a US court.
Will other African countries now also consider withdrawal from the International Criminal Court so Putin can visit?
The Jigawa State High Court has sentenced four persons to death by hanging for murder in the Ringim Local Government of the state.
In his remarks, Mr Masari endorsed their joint ticket and assured them of his support.
“It was, however, conducted via an open and transparent bidding process which resulted in the entrance of several new contractors.
In an update on the situation of Nigerians at Port Sudan, the agency said a woman who gave birth and her baby are healthy and will return to Nigeria soon.
He noted that the candidates would be examined in 76 subjects, made up of 197 papers, adding that about 30,000 senior secondary school teachers, nominated by the various states’ education ministries, would be participating in the examination as supervisors.
The police said they have arrested the officers who were seen in a viral video assaulting an unidentified man in Rivers State.
Mr Okereke added that the NUC also approved masters and doctorate degree programmes in Communication and Multimedia Design (CMD), Petroleum Chemistry, English Language and Literature.
• Hussaini Babangida Uba – Jigawa North West
According to the source, Mr Maihanci was 37.
Mr Abakpa, who was reportedly suspended on Wednesday, was asked to hand over to the most senior director in the Federal Ministry of Education (FME).
“Yet, our intention in preferring an engagement with the executive based on harmony and collaboration has been to better serve Nigeria by providing a safe atmosphere for national development.”
“Such routes include Ikorodu through Sagamu and Ijebu-Ode, and Epe for Lagos bound vehicles, ” he said.
Mr Shehu listed the airports as: Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos, Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja, Port Harcourt International Airport and Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport, Kano.
He said that a large cache of arms was recovered while two suspected bandits and drug peddlers were apprehended at Wazata village in Birnin Gwari Local Government Area of Kaduna State.
“Restore monetary policy focus back to its price stability mandate, taming inflationary pressure and strengthening the monetary transmission.
In the dying moments of the match, substitute Julián Álvarez put the final nail in Madrid’s coffin, slotting home a fourth goal for City in the first minute of stoppage time, courtesy of an assist from Phil Foden.
His confirmation followed the adoption of report of the Senate Committee on Banking, Insurance and other Financial Institutions.
“This lackadaisical attention to a serious matter like this calls for concern, as this information is necessary to enable our smooth takeoff on the 29 May, 2023,” Mr Iordye said.
Stop over 1 hrs in Juba.
By cancelling her declaration, Binani contended that INEC usurped the powers of the election petition tribunal which is the only court vested with powers on a declaration from the conduct of an election.
Mr Farinloye told NAN that the building, which was under construction, trapped some workers inside.
It said this alarming situation stems from various factors, including unstable food-producing regions, inadequate storage infrastructure, and a lack of agricultural commercialisation.
“Year in, year out in this House we budget billions of naira to the office of the NSA and other security arms.
The Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, has described the electoral victory of the All Progressives Congress’ (APC) candidates in the 2023 general elections as a difficult reality for the opposition parties.
Vitafoam features on the pick this week for trading close to its lowest price in 52 weeks, offering a good entry point especially for investors seeking stocks with prospects of price appreciation.
JAMB has rescheduled the mock examination for affected candidates for an Tuesday, 18 April.
Mr Ani added that the promotion of 109 senior staff of the Commission was approved during the meeting.
In an interview with PREMIUM TIMES, Mr Benjamin said it is typical for candidates to besiege registration centres at the last minute, noting that the JAMB offices have been “empty” before this time.
The tournament was also watched by more than a billion people around the world.
The couple went on to have a child together.
Elections in Sokoto State have always been exciting especially since 2007 when then governor Attahiru Bafarawa fell out with his deputy, Aliyu Wamakko.
The police said the victim rescued in Abuja had been sold with fake documents and given a new name.
On behalf of the members of the Nigerian Legal Profession I thank all well-wishers who stood by the Bar and the family of Mr. Okey Wali, SAN, in thoughts, prayers and deeds, throughout this horrific ordeal.
The UK court will sentence Mr Ekweremadu, his wife and a doctor on 5 May following their conviction in March.
Since the declaration of the APC candidate as the winner of the election, opposition parties and their supporters have not only rejected the results, but they are also for the cancellation, accusing the electoral commission of flouting its own guidelines.
Mrs Benson noted that for many years, there have been yearnings for the reformation of the Force and better welfare for the personnel; adding that she wondered where the welfare should begin if not from a befitting accommodation.
Mr Sulaimon said the region with over one billion people accounts for only three per cent of haemophilia cases globally.
Who is the Governor of Osun State?
The applicant further submitted that INEC, being an agency of the government, can have its actions, records, and decisions checked by the court and only a court can nullify the actions of an INEC official and not the INEC itself.
Commonly referred to as “Prince” in Abeokuta his home city, Mr Ajibola was born on 22 March, 1934, in Owu in Abeokuta, to the family of Abdul-Salam Ajibola Gbadela II, who was the traditional ruler of Owu between 1949 and 1972.
CPJ research has for years documented a steady stream of attacks, prosecutions, and harassment of journalists in Nigeria, including for publishing alleged “false news.” CPJ research shows at least 24 journalists have been killed in Nigeria since 1992.
Addressing the troops, the Chief of Operations, Army, Taoreed Lagbaja, a major general, said the troops would be Nigeria’s Company 2 Stabilisation Mission in the ECOWAS-support mission in Guinea Bissau.
“If the custodial centre is served with the necessary medical report of the defendant, he should be given proper medical attention,” Mrs Ogala said.
The process was fraught with a number of irregularities including pockets of violence in different parts of the country.
Mr Nnamani said the presidential election has been conducted and a winner was declared.
They are expected to move out between 1 May and 30th.
SDN also said it noted slow responses to gas leaks and blowouts by the oil company and the government regulators, “and poor techniques to stop leaking infrastructure and mitigate future issues.”
The APC governors are Abubakar Bagudu of Kebbi State, Abubakar Badaru of Jigawa and Bello Matawalle of Zamfara State.
The election of the principal officers of the 10th National Assembly will hold during its inauguration in June.
Pictures and videos taken by the fire brigade showed entire streets under water, mudslides blocking roads and fields resembling seascapes.
You remain indeed an asset, a reference, a rallying point for our country, as you continue to improve on issues of good governance and entrenchment of democratic action.
Importantly, he needs to come clean with Nigerians on the way and manner he has prosecuted the anti-corruption fight.
They can’t continue, they will either leave the state or repent.”
Atiku, who arrived Mr Kalu’s Abuja residence at 3:30 p.m., expressed sadness over the senator’s wife.
Of the 93.4 million registered voters this year, 87.2 million people collected their Permanent Voters Card while the total number of actual voters on election day was only 24.9 million.
The senator representing Borno South, Ali Ndume (APC, Borno) also said Mr Akpabio is the preferred choice of the “president”.
A 13-year old student, Excellent Edwin-Isotu has won the 2023 Junior Category to represent Rivers State at the Nigeria Spelling Bee Competition.
He said Mr Buhari expressed his readiness to welcome Mr Tinubu to the State House as President on 29 May.
“That is exactly what this case is about.
Also reacting to the murder of Mr Udeh, the APGA candidate in the just concluded 2023 general elections, Mr Nweke Jr., said he was still in shock over the kidnap and murder of the deceased.
“The contraband narcotics worth about N10 million and the means of conveyance were taken to the station at Seme and detained, pending further investigations.
Those fixated with heating up the polity, creating divisions, tensions and hatred within and outside Nigeria should remember that Nigeria is our only country.
The National Universities Commission (NUC) has approved new academic programmes for the American University of Nigeria (AUN), the management of the private university said.
When contacted, Ms Umar failed to respond to calls and messages asking for her reactions by PREMIUM TIMES.
She currently chairs the House Committee on Disabilities and is also known for sponsoring the controversial Cannabis Bill.
But they urged the court to make a consequential order of discharging and acquitting their clients of the 13 counts.
Sometime in 2009, he was appointed as the First Deputy Speaker of the Economic Community of West African States, ECOWAS, and made to lead ad học Committee to work for the return of constitutional order in the Niger Republic.
According to the DG, “NAFDAC did not ban Indomie Instant Noodles produced in Nigeria.
We shall not allow anybody to scuttle its implementation.
Mr Aliyu made the assertion on Thursday during an interactive session with the Senate Committee on Power and heads of agencies in the power sector in Abuja.
“The free circulation of ideas and news is not possible except in the context of a plurality of sources of information and media outlets.
The leadership and members of the Bar in Rivers State have been exceptionally wonderful.
What is going to be different about you?
Fidson makes the cut for currently trading below its real value.
“Professor Olupona has not only done remarkably well for himself and the Ivory Tower, but he has also made Nigeria and indeed Africa proud.
“A climate of fear is being generated.”
“I, therefore have a duty to valiantly defend the Igbo course and I promise Imeobi and all Igbo people that by the grace of God, I will not fail them,” Mr Iwuanyanwu said.
“We are aware of the unemployment rate in the country so it is important for one to have skills as means of providing for their families.
Mr Buhari made the call at the commemoration of the 2023 Workers Day, with the theme; “Workers Rights and Socio-Economic Justice,’’ on Monday in Abuja.
ACF kicks against Akpabio as Senate President
Testifying, the first prosecution witness denied the claim in the defamatory report where he was said to be a personal assistant to Serah Alade, a former Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN).
You may have followed my engagement with you through these Messages over the years.
The petition had alleged the omission of the party’s name on the ballot paper for the governorship election by INEC.
Thousands of families, including children, face malnutrition.
If they have their way, they would avoid attending personally to the yearly presentation of budgets to the legislature, a merely ceremonial appearance.
He is said to be connected to the police authorities in the area.
But, two members of the House of Representatives Akin Alabi (APC, Oyo) and Rolland Igbakpa (PDP, Delta) criticised the recommendations, saying it may not be easy for the ruling party to zone principal positions to the Northern region considering that the President-elect, Mr Tinubu, and his Vice, Kashim Shettima ran on Muslim/Muslim Ticket.
“I believe the Attorney General can institute action in a Court of law to challenge States’ pension laws for former governors.
With the first phase of the project, which wrapped up in December 2022, two million poor and vulnerable households mined from the National Social Register benefited from cash transfers.
You have no obligation to please any one.
I look forward to a renewed collaboration and determination to make even more progress in the years to come,” she said.
Mr Benjamin said the UTME which was earlier scheduled to commence on 29 April, would now start on 25 April
An Ikeja Sexual Offences and Domestic Violence Court on Monday remanded a clergyman, Daniel Oluwafeyiropo, for allegedly raping two of his church members (names withheld).
President Obasanjo never wanted to accord due recognition to principal officers of the National Assembly.
The then governor and candidate of the APC, Gboyega Oyetola, lost the election to the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Ademola Adeleke.
“Winning an election in Africa’s most populous country is no easy feat.
“The now suspended Monday sit-at-home order was an IPOB leadership order that was suspended by the leadership in collaboration with our leader after considering some adverse effects on our people and how our enemies can possibly use it,” the IPOB spokesperson said in another statement on Tuesday, according to report in the local media.
Mr Anieke, a Christian cleric, warned that the management would not tolerate staff or students who wear tights and other materials that expose sensitive parts of their bodies, stressing that such acts distract other members of the university.
“We must invest in research, conservation and stories that educate the people for a better tomorrow that is sustainable,” she said.
Therefore, to win the election, Ms Binani needed a huge turnout of voters and needed to win about 90 per cent of the votes cast in Saturday’s supplementary election.
This is not allowed,” he wrote.
08 April, 2023.
We have held meetings about our joint task that I talked about earlier and with the number of meetings we have held, I have not seen anything like that.
Corruption Allegation: Nigerian government suspends education commission boss
President Muhammadu Buhari, former Minister of Finance, Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, businessman, Tony Elumelu, Oby Ezekwesili, Chimamanda Adichie are some Nigerians who made the list in the past.
The National Working Committee of Nigeria’s ruling party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), has condemned the attack on the members of its Rivers State chapter.
The lawmakers met on Tuesday at the Transcorp Hilton in Abuja.
However, many calls to Mr Adekeye’s mobile telephone number were not picked and neither did he respond to messages sent to the phone as of the time of filing this report.
You may have to involve your financial advisor before taking investment decisions.
Meanwhile, the police in Imo State said they had launched a manhunt for the gunmen who killed the officers and the couple in the state.
This event is also one of the most-watched television programs globally, with an average global audience of over two billion viewers.
Details of a document seen by PREMIUM TIMES showed that the financing agreement is between Nigeria and the International Development Association (IDA).
Justice Johnson sentenced Mr Ekweremadu to nine years and eight months in prison while his wife was also sentenced to four years and six months and Mr Obetta to 10 years.
If the leave has been approved, as reported in the media, the President should cancel it in the interest of peaceful transfer of power, accountability and good governance.
The impending industrial action is billed to begin by midnight of 16 May.
The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has denied reports that it plans to withdraw the recently redesigned N1000, N500, and N200 currency banknotes from circulation.
But contrary to Mr Obi’s claims that the election fell short of provisions of laws, INEC argued that it conducted the polls in strict compliance with the constitution and electoral laws.
Adamawa Governorship: Buhari suspends REC who declared Binani winner
A statement issued on Wednesday by the governor’s media aide, Crusoe Osagie, said the dissolution was with “immediate effect”.
PRESS & PUBLIC RELATIONS DEPARTMENT
Commandant General of the NSCDC, Ahmed Audi, in a statement on Wednesday, said the Adamawa commandant of NSCDC will face the management team to give details of his role in the illegal declaration of Mrs Dahiru.
He said children’s stool was required to test children for TB, because they do not know how to spit out sputum after coughing, but rather swallow it.
President Buhari affirms the impact of Mr Adenuga’s visionary leadership on Nigeria’s economy, setting the pace for investments in oil and gas, telecoms, real estate, banking, construction and hospitality, with remarkable presence in supporting entertainment, sports and African culture, within and outside the country.
He added that healthcare is on the residual list, where both the federal and state governments have the powers to legislate.
Like the sun of Adenuga
Jordan said it had started evacuating 300 citizens,” Aljazeera reported.
Do you think I can just pick a phone and say religious war?
Mr Muoka said the commission has reported the allegations, which it takes seriously, to relevant security agencies for proper investigation and necessary action.
“A region is given more than their fair share if this lopsided template of giving the Deputy Senate Presidency and Speakership to the North-west is implemented,” he said.
He stated also that the DPO and the operatives had been summoned to the police headquarters in the state.
Of the lot, the Somali conflict of 1991 is remarkable.
She faces a three-count charge of assault, conducting herself in a manner likely to cause breach of public peace and acting in a manner to endanger the life of the complainant.
But the high and low sugar was never gone.
In the nine-point resolutions, the doctors demanded an “immediate increment in the CONMESS salary structure to the tune of 200 per cent of the current gross salary of doctors in addition to the new allowances included in the letter written by NARD to the Minister of Health, Osagie Ehanire, in 2022.
Over 100 killed in Plateau in 48 hours — Lawmaker raises alarm
Mr Ari’s illegal declaration caused confusion in the polity until the INEC headquarters declared the announcement null and void.
A lawyer, Rhoda Aransiola, who made the application on behalf of her client, Victor Opatola, said the application became necessary when the commission refused to grant the request made by her client under the FOI Act.
It is like they are saying there is nothing you people can do,” he stated.
Onuoha: No, I have also demonstrated today that I am able to unify the House.
This has never happened in the history of Nigeria.
The result sheets they were supposed to fill are all here in Uyo.
Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State says the federal and state governments may not be able to pay workers’ salaries beyond June unless it either resorts to “massive printing of money” or removing fuel subsidy.
Campaigns in Nigeria are crazily expensive, for God sake, and that is another point that has to be looked into.
Onuoha: That brings us to the issue of networking and lobbying.
You fought a good fight across party lines.
Ghana has approved a new malaria vaccine from Oxford University, becoming the first country in the world to take that step forward in fighting the life-threatening disease.
Armed robbers kill trader at Ogun phone market
“Additionally, you must respect the culture and religious sensitivity of the people of the host nation and must not involve yourselves in the trafficking of illicit substance of any kind,” Mr Lagbaja warned.
Economy-wise, Sudan used to parade one of the fastest-growing economies in the world as at 2010.
“About 1,500 ballots coming from abroad have not yet been counted.
“Earlier on Monday at Onikan, an individual hawking drinks in a bid to outrun his fellow hawkers to sell drinks to people in a bus in front of my vehicle hit the side mirror of my vehicle and the mirror fell down.
“Today we are in receipt of a letter from the Attorney General of the Federation and the Minister of Justice who is averring his determination to respect the doctrine of separation of powers and to support our extant laws.
Affirming the Federal High Court’s decision on Friday, a three-member panel of the Court of Appeal unanimously held that Mr Maina was not denied a fair hearing at the trial court as he alleged.
This came after the party’s lawyer, Obed Agu, announced the party’s decision to withdraw the case to the court.
5 dead, 24 injured in Cross River road accident
It is meant for census.
Following the 2023 presidential election, Tinubu is scheduled to succeed Muhammadu Buhari as president on 29 May 2023.
In fact, since the beginning of Ramadan, I have been clamouring that another monarch should be enthroned as soon as possible.
Another director of Aranda Resources Limited and Aranda Overseas Corporation, Adegboyega Oyetola, was elected governor of the Nigerian southwestern state of Osun in 2018, and Tinubu was widely credited for his electoral success.
I will never give up on this journey until victory is achieved.
In the letter sighted by this media,dated April 5, 2023, and signed by the Vice Chancellor of the University, Prof O.M.
The governor said that his administration had made good progress due to the cordial relationship it had with the worker’s unions; NLC and the TUC.
A former presidential candidate of the defunct Hope Democratic Party (HDP), Ambrose Owuru, has urged the Court of Appeal to halt Bola Tinubu’s inauguration as Nigeria’s president on 29 May.
The Federal Government on Thursday suspended Mr Ari and directed the Inspector General of Police to commence an immediate investigation and prosecution if found liable.
These customers thus fall into the hands of fraudulent individuals masquerading as social media service arms of different banks.
Of the confirmed cases, Ondo State reported 32 per cent, followed by Edo and Bauchi with 29 and 11 per cent respectively.
The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is set to present certificates of return to winners in the supplementary elections held last Saturday.
The findings were contained in a report from the Bayelsa State Oil and Environmental Commission, which had in 2019 begun an investigation on the impact of oil spills in the state, Reuters reported.
Many viruses and bacteria still present a serious health risk, and so we continue to focus on research and development in new areas, with the goal of adding more approved vaccines to tackle pathogens,” the official added.
Others are Magnesium trisilicate tablets and suspensions; Piperazine tablets and syrups; Levamisole tablets and syrups; Ointments penicillin/gentamycin; Pyrantel pamoate tablets and syrups; Intravenous Fluids (Dextrose, Normal Saline etc); Waste pharmaceutiques; and Mineral or chemical fertilisers containing the three fertilising elements nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium (NPK).
Mr Adekoye said that the arrests followed intense surveillance and undercover operation ordered by the Director General of NAPTIP, Fatima Waziri-Azi, in response to several complaints.
The troops began their pre-deployment training on 21 March at the Martin Luther Agwai International Leadership and Peace Keeping Centre (MLAILPKC), Jaji, Kaduna state.
*Practicing good personal hygiene by frequently washing hands with soap under running water /or use of hand sanitisers when appropriate.
The doors and windows were open.
The former governorship candidate in Imo State filed the suit at the Federal High Court in Abuja, on 12 September, to challenge his removal about eight months earlier.
The European Parliament has appealed to the Nigerian government to release Yahaya Sharif-Aminu, a Kano-based singer, who is being held over alleged blasphemy.
“I don’t know if they gave him American citizenship.
“The Federal Government of Nigeria does not have an organic budget law.
They have 13,243 and 47,277 eligible voters, respectively.
The police in Lagos and other states deserve better accommodation, better schools for their children, better amenities,” she noted.
Mr Mohammed affirmed that what he said about Mr Peter Obi, the Labour party presidential candidate was very clear.
In his remarks, the World Health Organisation (WHO) Country Representative, Walter Molumbo, emphasised the importance of accelerating efforts in the health sector, as outlined in the upcoming strategy to be unveiled by the WHO Director-General during the 75th World Assembly.
One day in November 2022, Mr Tony wanted to inquire about his account.
“All hands must be on deck to ensure that the problems are not allowed to escalate.
Elections are scheduled to be held in Kogi State later this year.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Imo governorship poll comes up on 11 November.
The opposition can also join forces to snatch the principal offices from the APC.
It goes to prove the point that provoked the avalanche EXACTLY!
Terrorists abducted the district head of Kasuwar Daji in Kaura Namoda area of Zamfara State, Ibrahim Sarkin – Fada, Thursday morning.
So, my brother responded that he couldn’t beat him because he had done no wrong.
APC electoral victory, a difficult reality for opposition parties – Presidential aide
Mr Njoku had in an application he filed through his team of lawyers led by Chike Onyemenam, SAN, urged the court to correct a typographical error in its judgement, which he said wrongly handed the leadership of the party to Mr Oye.
NARD had on 29 April issued a two-week ultimatum to the government to meet its demands or face industrial action.
‘‘I had earlier directed the Secretariat, the National Information Technology Development Agency to commence the execution of the implementation plan it developed.
The Special Envoy, Mohammed Saleh, who is a former minister of foreign affairs, now minister of diplomatic affairs, recalled the role of Mr Buhari, in 1983 as military head of state, as being the first African leader to recognise the Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic, paving the way thereby, for its recognition by the Organisation of African Unity, now African Union.
House Speaker: Minority lawmakers form coalition to challenge APC
Although the actor has never publicly endorsed Mr Obi or the other presidential aspirants, his followers think he is ‘Obidient’ because he has taken subliminal swipes at the PDP and APC presidential aspirants in the past.
“Having been persuaded of my track record as a ranking legislator, a politician of more than 35 years standing and a personal character that had stood the test of time for integrity and commitment to the people, I, Engr.
The applicants are struggling to register for direct entry ahead of the 13 May deadline.
Some of the kiosks are built under the high tension cable which is very dangerous,” he said.
His global reputation as a Professor of Practice in Public Health continues to bring honour and prestige to our country,” the President-elect said.
NW called for further and better consultation with necessary stakeholders in order to assure the support of the aspirants to the National Assembly leadership positions and members of the Party nationwide.
“We have come here to tell the world that the action of this faction is a total nullity and should be disregarded because the action does not follow the content of the rules and constitution of the Labour Party.”
The financial services group’s present PE ratio is 3.3x, while the EPS is N1.81.
However, that order is no longer final as the immigration judge’s granting of her petition to reopen vacated her 1992 order of removal.
Governor Charles Soludo of Anambra State has spoken on the likely cause of the gunmen attack on officials of the US Consulate in Nigeria on Tuesday in the state.
The company claimed the attack was “selective” given that another unnamed Nigerian airline was allowed to operate into the state.
The report found that OPEC’s Gulf producers – Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates – met output targets under the OPEC+ deal with steady production.
Mr Mbadinuju died on Tuesday morning at the National Hospital, Abuja after a brief illness, his first son, Chetachi Mbadinuju, announced in a statement on Tuesday.
Facebook boss, Mark Zuckerberg [Photo Credit: BRG.in]With Mr Zuckerberg’s announcement, WhatsApp users may now be allowed to use the same account on at least four devices.
FRSC says road traffic crashes are a leading cause of death and disability in Nigeria
Following the remarks by some of the lawmakers, the meeting was declared “closed door”.
“How surprising then to see the U.S. State Department congratulate Tinubu on March 1.
In all, our journey is long and winding, exhausting but promising, sorrowful but expectant.
“Jigawa State Judicial Service Commission as one of the best Commission across the Country in terms of operating within the ambit of the legal framework, called on its entire staff to put all hands on deck to maintain that tempo in the administration of justice,” Mr Wangara said in the official statement.
Ondo State is currently leading on the log of Lassa fever infections in Nigeria, according to data from the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC).
Although it acknowledged the judge correctly placed the offence in the right category of the relevant sentencing guideline, it insisted that a term significantly longer than 22 months imprisonment was merited.
They, however, stated that the 2015 option has not been considered because consultations are ongoing.
CSOs call for implementation, domestication of Mental Health Act across states
Mr Tinubu will receive briefings and hold key meetings as president-elect when he eventually moved into the Defence House ahead of his inauguration on 29 May.
Adamawa Governorship: Binani withdraws suit against INEC
The main opposition party in Kogi, PDP, is expected to also hold its primary on Friday.
“Section 126, Subsection 3 provides that except with the resolution of a state Assembly, no person shall act in the office of the Auditor-General for a state for a period exceeding six months.
Mr Tinubu, who is due to be sworn in on 29 May, made the promise in a statement on Monday to commemorate the Workers’ Day.
We just saw that he was shot dead by cultists.
Olabisi Soyebo, SAN – ALTERNATE CHAIRMAN
Mr Fintiri and Mrs Dahiru are the major contenders in the governorship poll.
Yesterday’s dreams turned into a nightmare.
This helped dismantle some of the continent’s largest wildlife trafficking networks.
The petitioner accused Mr Shettima of “double nominations” having been nominated by the APC as its senatorial candidate for Borno Central District and later vice-presidential flagbearer for the 25 February polls.
The police spokesperson said the arrested suspects “volunteered crucial information that assisted” the operatives to arrest four other suspected IPOB members at their second hideout at about 12:40 a.m. on 27 April in Itu, a community in Ezinitte Mbaise Local Government Area of the state.
Her dedication to journalism and persistence in her work serve as inspiration to journalists around the world, but in particular in Latin America, where freedom of the press and the safety of journalists is unfortunately under severe pressure.
Mr Soludo said he had increased the workers’ salaries by 10 per cent in December and pleaded with them to start coming to work on Mondays.
“The offence for which he is charged is a bailable offence and he has credible sureties that can stand for him,” he said.
On the directive by the president that booklets should be produced by the Nigeria Security Printing and Minting PLC (NSPM), Mr Jere recommended that a proper exit plan be put in place for a smooth handover from Irris Smart Tech to prevent any breach of contract and production process.
Mr Gbajabiamila and James Faleke, the Secretary of the now-defunct APC presidential campaign council made appearance.
Mr Wike has declared Wednesday as a public holiday, urging the people of the state to turn out en masse to receive Mr Tinubu.
The allegation is unfounded.
“It’s expected that this time politicians and all the relevant stakeholders in our electoral processes will be on the same page with the Police and other relevant security agencies by upholding their pledges of being transparent, peaceful and as well as playing politics by the rules.
As Segun, his firstborn has said that I am actually his firstborn.
In his intervention, Chairman, Senate Committee on Local and Foreign Debts, Clifford Ordia (PDP-Edo Central), gave clarification on the loan.
But their rivals are unhappy about the party’s decision and Mr Yari has vowed not to quit the race for Mr Akpabio.
Ekpenyong: Well, the judgement will be served on the CAC, and we will give a legal opinion pointing out that those provisions that granted them enormous powers to regulate incorporated trustees have been nullified, except an appellate court says otherwise.
The president gave the approval after meeting with some members of the Federal Executive Council.
Both parties have made allegations and counter-allegations over the clash.
The Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Usman Baba, has ordered security checks and patrols of all public spaces and essential government assets during the Easter celebrations.
We believe that by the time we get to June, we should expect this group to rise to about 85 to 86.
“I have always said In Sha Allah , the will of God will be done in Nigeria.”
The chairman of Geregu Power Plc, Femi Otedola, has sold 2.8 million units of his shares in the power generation company, where he is holding the majority stake.
The electoral commission chairman, Mahmood Yakubu, is one of those who have asked that Nigerians in the Diaspora be allowed to vote.
In a memoir titled, ‘Traversing the Thorny Terrain of Nigeria’s Justice Sector; My Travails and Triumphs,’ Mr Malami chronicled the challenges and successes he achieved as minister
His connection to Abeeb Holdings Limited has been revealed, thanks to the Register of Overseas Entities, a new measure designed by the U.K. to reveal the true owners of offshore firms that hold property in the country.
Mrs Bala Usman mentioned three reasons why her appointment received a lot of criticism- her gender, her age and “politicians who preferred the appointment of other politicians from Katsina State ”.
The prosecutor further stated that when the complainant and his team got to the defendant’s house, they asked for her bill and she could not produce it.
The Deputy Governors of Kano, Gombe, Borno and Ebonyi were in attendance, as well as the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha.
There have been intense discourse over Mr Buhari’s approach to combating corruption with many saying he has been “selective and vindictive.”
The collation of results however resumed on Tuesday evening after several outcries from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and election observers.
He said he had received 10,990 votes while the PDP candidate had polled 5,578 at the end of the 18 March election, only for INEC to declare the election inconclusive shockingly.
Earlier the prosecution counsel, James Idachaba, told the court that a new counsel called him over the phone, explaining that he had not yet gotten the case file to take over the case from the former counsel.
He said to their surprise, the Permanent Secretary, Aliyu Mohammed, informed all the banks that the federal government had purportedly lost the sum of N13 billion through the leakages and thereafter stated emphatically that the sum of N849,408,000 must be refunded by ECOBANK within two weeks.
Justice Oguntoyinbo who last month retired from the bench expressed “regret” during a valedictory court session held in her honour that the judgment has not been implemented.
Mr Gambari, in a statement shared with PREMIUM TIMES, expressed his clients’ “confidence in the merit of the appeal.”
The disease control centre has explained that people of all age groups who come in contact with the urine, faeces, saliva or blood of rats are mostly at risk of Lassa fever.
However, Tinubu has neither confirmed nor denied his dual citizenship of Nigeria and Guinea.
Responding to APC’s demands, Terver Akase, special adviser on Media and Publicity to Mr Ortom, said the requests were “unconstitutional.”
“We can’t wait until we start losing students to such accidents.
• Agadaga Benson Sunday Bayelsa East
This ugly incident is yet another sad reminder of the weakness in our security system and the failure of successive governments to live up to the Constitutional duty of providing for the welfare and security of all Nigerians.
Mr Isa praised the nation’s tax chief for achieving several milestones in revenue collection.
Delivering judgement on the suit, the Court of Appeal upheld Mr Ozekhome’s arguments.
The students said they have, since the fighting in Sudan erupted on Saturday, been stranded in fear with no access to basic needs equipment and have been facing dangerous threats.
The fact that he knows his onion is easily evident in conversations with him and Prof. Olupona and I have had several intellectual encounters.
Mr Kukah said things will never be the same again because of young Nigerians.
No date has been fixed for the hearing of the suit.
She said the “intentional delay” to upload the presidential election results afforded the APC the opportunity to “manipulate” them.
He said the panel members also enquired about Mr Asadu, who had not been seen since his arrest, and Mr Agbazue responded that he was away when Mr Asadu was arrested.
I cry, I feel sorry for them.
Military denies allegation of bias in Southern Kaduna
“Everybody is talking about Lagos.
“His legacies in the judiciary, philanthropy and the educational development of Nigeria would never be forgotten.”
It did not provide the details of the meeting or of the efforts so far made to secure the release of the victim.
“Others departed from the Elrazi University also in Khartoum.
Nigerian journalist Peter Enahoro has passed away at the age of 88.
“Global headline inflation is set to fall from 8.7 per cent in 2022 to 7.0 per cent in 2023 on the back of lower commodity prices, but underlying (core) inflation is likely to decline more slowly.
Some wonder whether Russia has some powerful hold over the ANC, perhaps financial.
“There was no evidence” led by Mr Kanu “before the court of first instance and the court below to show how he was allegedly abducted and rendered to Nigeria,” the government said.
Prosecutors say the alleged crimes were committed between June and August 2003.
Huge congratulations to my sister, Senator Aishatu Dahiru Ahmed (Binani).
” And when we discussed this and we are able to bring out the report to the government and the generality of Nigerians, there will be some high level of solutions to this menace.”
If the party insists on ensuring that a Christian emerges as the Senate President, then the North-west may have to fight for the Speakership.
“This is a singular honor in recognition of your outstanding contributions to your discipline and to society at large, and one that is richly deserved.
Mr Ekweremadu, the senator representing Enugu West Senatorial District, was arrested and charged by MET Police last June for conspiracy to traffic a man, whose name was later revealed to David Nwamini (Ukpo), to the UK for the purpose of harvesting his organ to treat his ailing daughter.
Despite rising oil prices, the IMF said, the government’s fiscal deficit is estimated to have widened further in 2022, mainly due to high fuel subsidy costs.
Mr Mbang’s ministerial work spanned over four decades, having enrolled at the Trinity College, Umuahia, Abia State, in 1962.
Mr Ekweremadu, according to the BBC, was described by the judge as the driving force of the crime.
The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has declared Abbas Faisal of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as the winner of the supplementary election for Kudan House of Assembly seat in Kaduna State.
The defence lawyer argued that Mr Kanu’s extradition breached both Nigeria’s extradition laws and international conventions.
Mr Buhari, who is due to leave office on 29 May, had in a letter in 2022 requested that the N22.7 trillion Ways and Means loan should be converted to a 40-year bond with a moratorium of three years.
• Isa Shaibu Lau Taraba North
“That the executive council of the All Progressives Congress in Kashere ward has decided to expel Senator Muhammadu Danjuma Goje from the All Progressives Congress for his numerous anti-party activities that are in breach of article 21, section A, subsection ii, iii, vi and vii of the APC constitution,” Mr Abdullahi said.
The accident occurred on the Ifako Bridge inward Ogudu on the Oworonshoki Expressway in Lagos.
Mr Trump is projected to win the Republican Party’s nomination and be the party’s candidate.
“Additionally, at the meeting, the committee approved the sum of N250 billion for the execution of projects for the year 2023.’’
“We only saw Daberechi.
Mr Ologunagba said the action was a planned attempt to destabilise democracy and the peaceful co-existence of the country.
The judge, Mr Omotosho, after entertaining the arguments by lawyers to the parties, adjourned until 5 June for a ruling on the preliminary objections.
Contacted, the Nigeria police spokesperson, Muyiwa Adejobi, said, “I’m not aware of the letter, when we resume we are going to find out.”
“The north-central as a result of that is of the stand and position that the least position we will go for is the deputy senate president and this is not just coming today.
The LP candidate is currently challenging the result in court.
Although the Acting Chief Judge withdrew the case from her, her ruling was the first major blow to the entire impeachment process which the Supreme Court would also later nullify.
According to him, no Nigerian is left at the Egypt border, as all Nigerians at that point had been evacuated.
The association also elected six vice presidents, one from each of the six geopolitical zones in the country.
Mr Olawuyi will have to battle several other contenders from the North-central, including the incumbent Deputy Speaker Idris Wase and Yusuf Gagdi from Plateau State who have declared interest in the position.
She said the offence is punishable under Section 3 of the Penal Code Law of Jigawa State 2014 (Miscellaneous Amendment) Law.
In its reaction to the development, university management confirmed that the victim died from a “mob action on the allegation that he stole a phone.”
According to Patrick Obahiagbon, Secretary of the Kogi APC Primary Election Committee, which comprised seven members, Mr Usman-Ododo scored 78, 704 votes to beat six other contestants.
NAN had, on March 21, reported that Justice Inyang Ekwo of a sister court had restrained the CAC from suspending or appointing trustees of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) and the churches.
“Projections indicate that the size of the Chinese population could drop below one billion before the end of the century,” he said.
From 1964 to 1967, he served concurrently as the Chief Justice of the newly created Mid-Western region before he ceased to be a Nigerian judge as a result of the Civil War.
Also at the airport were former Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Nuhu Ribadu, APC Deputy National Chairman, North, Senator Abubakar Kyari, Deputy National Chairman, South, Emma Enekwu, and National Woman Leader, Betta Edu.
350.org centred its grouse on the claim that TotalEnergies, fresh from declaring a 70 per cent jump in profit to $5.6 billion for the first quarter compared to Q4 2022, is set to plough record profits into carbon-high energy projects, aggravating global warming.
“The allegation is unfounded.
The businessman also has his hands in other businesses including pastries, sugar and other areas of manufacturing.
His whereabouts since his abduction remains unknown.
Also speaking on the development, the Commissioner for Housing and Infrastructure, Raimi Aminu, said the need for the demolition became urgent, especially as the state awaits the commencement of the long-anticipated Ondo Port.
Market breadth was positive as 32 gainers were reported compared to 18 decliners.
The theme of the celebration in the state is “Clean, Green and Sustainable Anambra: Taking Ownership-A Community Participation Approach”, while the global theme is “Invest In Our Planet”.
The man and his wife were riding on a motorcycle when they ran into an ambush mounted by the kidnappers.
Ms Moeti said WHO was founded 75 years ago with an ambitious objective, “the attainment of all peoples of the highest possible level of health.”
Mr Goje and the incumbent governor, Inuwa Yahaya, are struggling over who should control the party structure in the state.
The telecoms company, MTN, had the highest share of subscriptions in Q4 2022.
Reports said the kidnappers abandoned his car from which he was seized at Ozuoba area of Obio/ Akpor Local Government Area.
Nigeria has the third-highest number of foreign doctors working in the United Kingdom, following India and Pakistan.
Before putting the bill to question, the Speaker of the House, Femi Gbajabiamila said the proposed bill was not infringing on the rights of medical practitioners because section 45 of the 1999 Constitution allows the government to suspend certain rights due to certain conditions.
You don’t zone to the forest.
The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) restored the old 200, 500 and 1000 naira notes to remain as legal tender until 31 December.
The All Progressives Congress (APC) has asked the Presidential Election Petitions Court (PEPC) in Abuja to dismiss petitions filed by three opposition parties challenging the victory of its presidential candidate, Bola Tinubu, in the 25 February election.
The candidate, he said, also alleged that the commission targeted Adamawa in its deployment of national commissioners and other officials with the sole purpose of influencing that outcome of the election.
Strategic leadership required for enduring impact during volatile periods
“The Commission demands that the culprit be arraigned immediately, and the police must ensure that the matter is followed to its logical conclusion to restore public confidence in the Nigeria Police.
“The allegation in its own right is devoid of any reasonable ground pointing to a material suspicion cogent enough to invoke the constitutional oversight of the committee.
Yesterday was just when he came to see me.
And the 35 per cent affirmative action has been ratified.
However, the Incorporated Trustees of Media Rights Agenda had, in an originating motions marked: FHC/ABJ/CS/1386/2021, sued the NBC as sole respondent in the suit.
Seven governors who sought elections into the Senate failed to scale through.
In its reaction to Mr Buhari's statement, Labour Party said contrary to the president's claim, it won the election but was rigged out.
The commissioner later confirmed to PREMIUM TIMES that the suspect was arrested from her apartment in the community after her ministry was notified of the incident.
Mr. Joseph Robinette Biden Jr., President of the United States of America,
Policeman shoots man twice over disagreement in Zamfara
She, therefore, advised the community leaders to urgently lead the people of their various communities in identifying drainages/culverts that are blocked to be cleared.
APGA has four seats, ADC and SDP two each while YPP got one seat.
The governor said late Mr Udeh was a friend and a loyal party man, and that his death pained him too.
“Nomination of such legal practitioners should be done by members of the public or the members of the legal profession and subjected to a credible process of selection.
Nigerian music star, Iyanya was also present at the event and performed his timeless hit Mr Oreo released in 2015.
Also confirmed were Ismail Mohammed (Kwara) and Kolade Abimbola (Oyo).
“The authority hereby uses this opportunity to advise all illegal occupants to relocate from all airport lands for their own safety and security, ” the statement said.
The governors noted that aspirants are offering newly elected lawmakers thousands of dollars for support, and some are willing to take the offer to a million dollars per vote.
The factional chairman of the Labour Party, Mr Apapa, had earlier had an altercation with the director-general of Peter Obi's presidential campaigns before court proceedings started.
Those hearings are scheduled for May23d—24th.
Members of the State Working Committee at the meeting were Mr Olaifa, Agboola Akinpelu (Youth Leader), Ismail Olatunji (State Auditor) and Adio Salami (State Organising Secretary) and Mr Amode.
You must look at the mistakes of the past and avoid them.
The police spokesperson in the state, Onome Onovwakpoyeya, who disclosed this in a statement in Abakaliki, said the officers arrested two suspected kidnappers and recovered three rifles.
The approvals were conveyed in a letter to the President of the University and signed on behalf of NUC by the Director of Academic Planning Dr. N.B.
It would be recalled that the committee, headed by Bamidele Salam, had on 9 May, demanded details of the projects including specific addresses and project descriptions.
The three then distributed the money as bribes to officials, the Nigerian government claims: $770,000 in the case of Prof and Uzo, about $50,000 in the case of Dr. Alimi.
Media reports have said 10 out of the 14 election petitions filed in the state relate to the 24-member Edo State House of Assembly.
Mr Akindeko was the Minister of Agriculture and Natural Resources in the Western Region between 1957 and 1963.
And your advice is always objective, your advice is always genuine in the overall interest of the country.
Mr Tinubu and the party had endorsed Godswill Apabio ( South-south) and Barau Jibrin (North-west) for the positions of the senate president and deputy senate president, respectively.
“If you want success for the agriculture sector, ensure transparency,” he added.
Mrs Victoria told PREMIUM TIMES that she and her husband, Romanus Asadu, had lost a huge amount of money in a bid to facilitate the release of their children from police custody.
He said after three weeks of the incident in the community, Mr Asadu and his father returned from Nsukka, where they had gone for treatment.
Organised international criminal networks that previously traded mostly with African elephant ivory are turning to pangolins.
The bridge is the longest of the three bridges connecting the mainland to Lagos Island.
But more particularly, the veto blocks far-reaching developments to the institution that you have served for a better part of your official life.
The Court of Appeal had on March 3 and 8 directed INEC to make available certified true copies of result sheets and other data obtained from the BVAS machines to tender same to aid the petitioner’s case.
He usually buys the stolen phones and other valuables robbed from their victims,” Mr Edafe said.
On Tuesday, APM’s lawyer, Oyetola Atoyebi, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), informed the court that his client had responded to questions bordering on the pre-hearing session.
A few moments later, the sum of N158,000 disappeared from his account.
What will a Miriam Onuoha-led House look like in 100 days?
PREMIUM TIMES reported that the police in the state had, in February, declared Mr Emeh wanted for unlawful possession of firearms and money laundering.
“The principle of presumption of innocence until one is proven guilty covers me.
“There was no meeting, but a visit,” Mr Adebayo said.
“There is also the possibility of the defendant interfering with the prosecution witnesses.
But in their separate responses to Mr Obi’s complaint, filed Monday night, 10 April, the APC and INEC said the Labour Party and its presidential candidate’s petition lacked merit.
However, the genre started experiencing a shift with the fusion of English and Pidgin.
“But we in NIDCOM, we give them recharge cards, SIM cards and sometimes phones.
He stated also that party had long-suspected that moles were planted to sabotage its efforts to offer Nigerians alternative governance.
Similarly, anti-narcotic officers acting on a tip-off, arrested two suspects: Aminu Saudi, 45 and Abdullahi Sani, 35, at Ogbese, Ondo state, with 11 jumbo bags containing 211kg of cannabis concealed in rice chaff.
We have with us grandchildren whose fathers are unknown to us.
Mr Ajibola, the founder of Crescent University, Abeokuta, died on Saturday midnight after a long illness associated with old age, his family said.
While making her presentation on the “Prospects of Alternative Feed Resources Utilisation (Insect)”, Cordelia Ebenebe, a professor of Animal Science at the Nnamdi Azikiwe University, said insects are essential components in the production of highly nutritious animal feeds.
Mr Gagdi represents Pankshin/Kanam/Kanke federal constituency of Plateau State.
“How can you come out to say that the President-elect should zone the Senate Presidency to South-east when you didn’t vote for him?
PREMIUM TIMES earlier reported that Nigeria has commenced the evacuation of its citizens from Sudan following the recent fighting between security agencies in the North African country.
“The 10th National Assembly needs a leader like (Mr) Jibrin who has garnered knowledge and experience from within and outside Nigeria, going by his academic records and qualifications.
He explained that his seeming inactiveness in the contest for the senate president was because of the one-month mourning of his late wife, Ifeoma Kalu.
*Three (8) gold and diamond-studded rings
It is not easy to call out names and say things as they are without let or hindrance showing you are a witness of truth.
The offence is said to be punishable under section 1(2)(b) of the Terrorism Prevention Amendment Act 2015.
Nigeria announces challenges evacuating citizens from Sudan
Mr Wike urged the Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC) to work together to protect and advance the social economic interest of the state and the citizens.
Woodberry’s fraudulent activities that were known to the US government took place in the Northern District of Illinois, Eastern Division, and other places, between January and September 2019.
He cautioned the troops to avoid any ugly incident that could tarnish the image of the Army and Nigeria during their stay in Guinea-Bissau.
Confronted by this staggering statistics, Nigeria’s decision to endorse any measure aimed at curtailing the rampaging disease would be applauded by the people.
“Under the Nigerian Constitution and human rights treaties to which Nigeria is a state party, freedom and diversity must be guiding principles in the regulation of broadcasting.
"More alarming are allegations in the public space of attempts by certain APC leaders to compromise the judiciary with heavy financial inducement and to orchestrate trumped-up allegations of impropriety against judicial officers.”
PDP congratulates Adeleke on Supreme Court victory as members rejoice in Osun, Lagos
The National Project Coordinator of AGILE, Amina Haruna, disclosed this in Abuja on Wednesday at the launch of a National Campaign, tagged ‘Madubi’, to boost the enrollment of girls in school and reduce the number of out-of-school children.
“They started by beating him with cutlass before setting him ablaze.
A Professor of Forensic Accounting, Samuel Dada, has called on the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to enhance the investigation of corruption cases by equipping its forensic accounting unit.
“This means that every commercial activity grinds to a halt, because the situation as it is, is a recipe for an epidemic,” he noted.
Consequently, a PDP senator, Ike Ekweremadu was elected the deputy senate president while Bukola Saraki of the APC emerged the Senate President.
INEC also declared Ibrahim Lamido of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as the winner of the Sokoto East Senate seat.
Cameroon has also emerged as a significant transit country for pangolins trafficked from the Central African Republic, says LAGA.
In 2021, the Atlanta Brave won the championship.
“Now the sad part is that the WHO-approved drug for Lassa fever, Ribavirin injection or intravenous fluid is not available in Lagos State.
It predicted a cloudy atmosphere with intervals of sunshine over the North-central throughout the forecast period.
Just as the COVID-19 pandemic affected the economy and almost every facet of life, it also disrupted essential health services and efforts to end several non-communicable diseases.
In his acceptance speech, Mr Iwuanyanwu described his adoption and the role he is to play as president-general of Ohanaeze Ndigbo World-wide as a “sacred duty.”
The National Publicly Secretary of PDP, Debo Ologunagba, made the call in a statement shortly after the declaration of the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Aisha Dahiru, popularly called Binani, as the winner of the election.
Large and enthusiastic crowds received him in the various South-East states where his Igbo kith and kin are found as well as many of the South-South states with close ethno-cultural and Christian religious affinity to the South-East.
Mr Okedara added that NBC Code and its amended version were alien to a democratic society and that the Code’s definition of “hate speech” and “offensive reference” is vague and ambiguous, and described the sanctions for violations as disproportionate and excessive.
This was without regard to the fact that my closest competitor hailed from their part of the country.
This is contained in a statement signed by the Corps Public Education Officer (CPEO), Bisi Kazeem, on Sunday in Abuja.
“The N714.629 billion total distributable revenue comprised distributable statutory revenue of N497.448 billion, distributable Value Added Tax (VAT) revenue of N202.693 billion and Electronic Money Transfer Levy(EMTL) of N14.488 billion,” the communique said.
Binani is the first elected female Governor in Nigeria,” the tweet reads.
They urged the federal government to continue with the good works.
According to Mr Adekoye, sextortion is a crime that occurs when someone threatens to distribute nudes and private videos of another person, and when that person refuses to grant them sexual favours or pay them money.
Besides, it said that there were other appeals arising from the case pending at the Supreme Court with appeal number: SC/CR/241/2020, between the federal government and Mr Yakubu, and appeal number: SC/CR/223/2020 between Mr Yakubu and the federal government.
This facility will be open 24/7, powered by solar energy and 24/7 internet access.”
The party alleged that “fictitious figures were ascribed to” Mr Tinubu “thereby giving him substantial lead and advantage in the various states.”
The spokesperson, Jigawa State Judiciary, Abbas Wangara, disclosed the sacking of the judge to journalists on Friday.
Meanwhile, a CTC of Justice Osiagor’s ruling marked: FHC/L/251C/16 delivered on Tuesday but made available to reporters by the lawyer on Thursday reads in part:
The APC says Mr Gemade and others worked against the party during the recent general elections.
Supplementary election records high voter turnout in Sokoto
Mr Ani said the commission had not formally received the petition or similar complaint on the allegations.
The PDP lost to the opposition parties in Abia, Benue, and Sokoto while APC lost in Plateau, Zamfara, and Kano.
“Unfortunately, some inpatient drivers who choose to drive against the flow of traffic from all available exit points have done so, thereby causing traffic jams.
Mr Abeeb noted that LASUTH is yet to commence the payment of hazard allowance more than two years after the agreement has been reached.
In every democratic contest, there has to be one winner.
We were driving to Abuja to sell the car when the police arrested us,” Mr Adamu said.
SPDC Media Relations Manager, Abimbola Essien-Nelson, in a statement, said that Shell awarded contracts worth $1.9 billion to Nigerian companies and works with NCDMB in building capacity of Nigerian companies in the oil and gas sector.
The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) says it will write the Inspector General of Police, Usman Baba, for immediate investigation and possible prosecution of the Resident Electoral Commissioner for Adamawa State, Hudu Ari, who illegally announced Aisha Dahiru of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as the winner of the gubernatorial elections in the state.
The appellate court based its decision on its finding that the extraordinary rendition mode of returning Mr Kanu to Nigeria breached both local and international laws.
Italian and Vatican media, however, related Pope Francis’ statement to remarks made by the brother of Emanuela Orlandi, who disappeared almost 40 years ago.
Mr Adebutu disclosed this in an interview with Saturday Tribune, saying he was speaking from somewhere outside Nigeria.
Gunmen have abducted an entrepreneur in Anambra State, South-east Nigeria.
PREMIUM TIMES has assembled a number of stocks with fundamentals and other potential, adopting key analytical approaches to save you the hassle of randomly picking equities for investment.
When reached for more details about the clashes, the army spokesperson in Sokoto State, Adamu Ngulde, a major, declined to speak and asked this reporter to contact the Nigerian Army spokesperson.
It said the Federal High Court’s judgement conflicted with the superior courts’ decision “on the proper interpretation of Section 308 of the 1999 Constitution.”
According to Gavi, mass production of the vaccine will mean that it won’t face the same bottlenecks in manufacturing hurdles encountered by other vaccines, including the COVID-19 vaccines.
Another amendment that may ensure inclusiveness of the heads of the third branch of government was rejected.
“Our workers are the unsung heroes of society and the engine that powers our economy and we will continue to prioritise your welfare.
May Almighty God bless your family thefortitude to bear this irreparable loss.
On 12 November 2019, Messrs Shuaib and Olufemi were arraigned on charges of conspiracy and defamation.
It is really unfortunate that we don’t have an organic budget law.
Meanwhile, a joint press release from the Ministry of foreign affairs and the federal ministry of humanitarian affairs, disaster management, and social development revealed that the first batch of 13 buses conveying six hundred and thirty-seven (637) evacuees had arrived at the identified safe borders at Aswan, Egypt, and are undergoing necessary documentation and clearance before admission into the Egyptian territory for their eventual evacuation to Nigeria.
The plan was formulated by the stakeholders in Ministries, Departments and Agencies of government.
PDP had similarly instituted failed legal actions against the defecting governors to retrieve the mandates the governors received in its names at the 2019 elections.
The governor, who was represented by the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Tammy Danagogo, commended the workers, saying they are the vehicle to deliver the action plans and services of the state to the people of the state.
“Also, during the recent Covid pandemic, ADF supported the return of Nigerians from India and Dubai during the outbreak of the pandemic with specially chartered flights and Covid testing and quarantining when they arrived back in Nigeria.
House Speaker: Tinubu will not make Jonathan, Buhari’s errors – Shettima
I therefore resolve this issue against the Attorney General, in favour of SERAP.
But the state has denied poor handling of the cases, saying it is following the WHO protocols in managing the situation.
“Before now, all the lands from Oyemekun, Irese down to ORSC, Automat, Shagari junction had been acquired for industrial purpose and as of then, the highway was not there,” he said.
Won da mo – Mavins, Rema and Boy Spyce
The Eastern Naval Command of the Nigerian Navy on Tuesday announced that it had arrested 27 vessels involved in illegal bunkering and crude oil theft, while 294 illegal refinery sites were deactivated.
The CPJ recalled that before the charges were filed, police leveraged their access to call data and briefly detained a News Digest web developer and at least two other journalists in their efforts to locate the journalists.
On Tuesday, this newspaper reported that candidates experienced minimal hitches and delay in centres visited across Lagos and Abuja.
Some of the lawmakers that are in the race are Deputy Speaker Idris Wase (APC, Plateau), Yusuf Gagdi (APC, Plateau), Muktar Betara (APC, Borno), Ben Kalu (APC, Abia), Sada Soli (APC, Katsina), Tunji Olawuyi (APC, Kwara) and Abubakar Makki (APC, Jigawa).
“When you ganged up to defeat the APC even in the stronghold of the president-elect, what were you thinking of?
Also, as at 1999, the South-East strongly voted for the PDP to emerge as the ruling party.
The verification will also include certified Next-of-Kin (NOK) of deceased ex-staff who were in service between July 2012 and October 2013
And aside from the electoral performance, the region can argue that it is yet to produce a senate president and speaker.
She sued INEC, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its candidate, Governor Fintiri, as the 1st, 2nd and 3rd respondents respectively.
Mr Tinubu’s victory is being challenged at the presidential election petition tribunal which started hearing on Monday.
PREMIUM TIMES Editor to deliver keynote speech at Climate Change workshop in The Gambia
Mr Oyetola said although the verdict of the court was against the wish of his party’s members and supporters, he accepted it in the interest of peace and development of the state.
HEDA is a non-governmental organization committed to promoting human rights, transparency, and good governance in Nigeria.
Prosecutors say Mr Massaquoi committed heinous crimes, including rape and ritual murders in towns and villages in Lofa County, and at Waterside in Monrovia.
He said Joshua Machiver got 2,078, Festus Danumiebi, 557, Maureen Etebu, 1,277, David Lyon, 1,584, and Isikima Johnson, 584 votes.
“With the parent’s reports about what happened to their child, and the girl’s account of who actually did it to her, it is enough for us to swing into action,” Ms Obi-Okodo said.
The APC candidate came second with 42, 402 votes in the state.
Uttar Pradesh is governed by the Hindu-nationalist BJP, and opposition parties criticised the killings as a security lapse.
Both Zailani Bappa, the official spokesperson to the state governor, Bello Matawalle, and the information commissioner, Ibrahim Dosara, didn’t respond to an SMS sent to them over the situation.
Lawmakers from North-central in the race are Mr Raheem, Deputy Speaker Idris Wase (Plateau) and Yusuf Gagdi (Plateau).
Unlike the District Court, the Appeal Court could not travel to Sierra Leone to hear witnesses, many of whom are for the Defence, because the Sierra Leonean government did not approve its presence there.
Akwa Ibom State Governor, Udom Emmanuel has accused youths of Eastern Obolo Local Government Area of the state of destroying a multi-million dollar Coconut Plantation in the state.
Mr Malami said this on Wednesday at a two-day workshop on ACJA 2015 for Police Prosecutors In North Central Zone, organised by the federal ministry of Justice in Abuja.
APC candidate Bola Tinubu is expected to be sworn in as president on 29 May although the Labour Party and the PDP are challenging the results of the election in court.
While Mr Gagdi did not mention the governors he visited, however, it is possible the governors cut across political parties because his party, the APC has 21 governors.
The stage was a replica of the national theatre, one of Nigeria’s notable edifices
But, according to Miss Thomas, the rep-elect, who is the immediate past Commissioner for Forestry in Ogun State, instead engaged her in a fierce argument.
I want to use this opportunity to communicate my desire to contest for the office of the Speaker of the House.
The region is equally positioning itself for the Senate presidency with Musa Sani, a lawmaker from Niger State.
“The work of 10 doctors is being done by one doctor, and that is why we have situations where a resident doctor was operating in the theatre and collapsed as a result of stress,” he said.
He congratulated Muslims for the successful completion of the holy month of Ramadan, urging them to imbibe the virtues of kindness, love, tolerance, self-denial and sacrifice as exemplified by the Holy Prophet Muhammad.
“Our major challenge with Childhood TB control in the state is that parents are scared… Some of them think the medical personnel want to use their children’s stool for ‘juju’”.
The stakeholders networking and experience sharing workshop on corrosive and constructive capital is designed to train Journalists and Civil Society Organisations to better understand and communicate the effects of corrosive capital, setting the agenda for improved governance of foreign financial flows into the country.
For those states that were not PDP before, I also believe you will do more,” he said.
degree programmes in Data Science and Analytics in addition to Computer Science, Software Engineering, and Information Systems, which the university offers at the Bachelor’s, Master’s, Doctorate, Post-Graduate diploma, and professional levels.
Mr Gwamnishu said when he visited Ms Asadu at Onitsha Correctional Centre, where she was remanded, she told him (Gwamnishu) that she and her brother, Mr Asadu, were “tortured and stripped naked” to compel them to confess being members of IPOB.
“Our message to Nigerians at this point is that we are ready to work for the betterment of our country and the citizens.
In a statement signed by Adebayo Taofiq on Monday, the spokesperson of LASTMA said the agency rescued three persons who were severely injured after three vehicles — Mazda commercial vehicle, ‘Keke Marwa’ and a Camry car, crashed at Mosalasi round-about inward Iyana-Ipaja area of the state.
There is so much he has to share with us.”
BPE to begin verification of PHCN ex-staff
The commission is to present the certificates of return to the senators and House of Representatives members-elect at the commission’s headquarters in Abuja today.
One had an injury in the hand while another one had abdominal pain.
A bill rejected by the president, if passed again with a two-third majority in each chamber, becomes law without the assent of the president.
Adeola Otubusin, a representative of the Dental Experience, said she was on hand to talk about oral health with the people of the community.
The development forced output and new orders to drop at rates steeper than those of the preceding month.
“In carrying out this assignment, you are expected to be guided strictly by the PDP Constitution (2017 as amended), the Electoral Guidelines for Party Primary Elections and the 2022 Electoral Act,” he said.
The bureau revealed this in its “Nigeria Electricity Report”, detailing revenue generated by DisCos in the third and fourth quarters of 2022, released on Monday.
“The enthusiasm of these young journalists in developing their careers and reporting on crucial environmental issues in biodiversity hotspots is truly inspiring.
In the 1980s, China implemented a so-called “one-child policy” that limited families to one child each, which ended in 2016.
‘‘Although many of the beneficiaries of this project will never meet the president personally, your policies and programmes have affected their lives,” he said.
He said while Mr Tinubu had all the three criteria in his kitty during the polls, the other major contenders did not have all.
and interference with the lawful duties of journalists and other media workers or be ready to face sanctions.
The police in Lagos State on Wednesday, arraigned a spare parts dealer, Ebube Eddy, popularly known as Bebex, at a magistrate court in Ogba for alleged sexual assault.
The lawyer, who gave the clarification in a statement she signed on Thursday in Abuja, also made available to reporters a Certified True Copy (CTC) of the ruling delivered by the judge to that effect.
While regulatory bodies, including the World Health Organisation (WHO), are still assessing the safety and effectiveness of the vaccine, Ghana’s drug regulator has approved it domestically for children aged 5 months to three years old.
Last February, Africa’s biggest lender Standard Bank put the funding decision on hold to undertake a full diligence report after local rivals Nedbank, ABSA and Investec backed off.
Mr Wike, who threw jibes at the leadership of his party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), applauded the election of Mr Tinubu which, he said, had shamed naysayers.
The late Mbadinuju served as the governor of Anambra State between 29 May 1999 and 29 May 2003 on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).
However, ruling on an application Mr Kanu later filed to challenge the entire 15 charges, the trial Federal High Court in Abuja dismissed eight of the counts adjudged to be inappropriate.
It needs to be assisted with reinforcement.
Mr Barde and other security chiefs were present at the collation centre when the INEC Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in the state, Hudu Ari, declared Mrs Dahiru, popularly called Binani, as winner of the governorship poll.
He also held that the sections infringed on the conscience and religion as enshrined under Section 38 of the constitution and freedom of peaceful assembly and association enshrined under Section 40 of the constitution and are therefore null and void.
The defendants pleaded not guilty to all the counts preferred against them.
Earlier in April, OPEC had agreed to cut output by about 1.27 million bpd as part of a total 2 million bpd reduction OPEC+ pledged in 2022.
Speaking on behalf of the aspirants, Mr Doguwa said he is a man of the establishment and cannot go against the party.
On Monday, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) said social media celebrity Ismaila Mustapha (alias Mompha), charged with N6 billion in money laundering, has been re-arrested.
Mr Ogunwusi said the corps’ role is needed nationwide, particularly with the trend of kidnapping, banditry and other security threats .
Also, Mr Abiru called for unity, tolerance and peaceful co-existence among Nigerians as Christians celebrate Easter.
Reporters were not allowed inside the venue during the Ohanaeze Imeobi meeting.
The CBN further reaffirmed its commitment to supplying the approved notes for the smooth running of the economy and urged members of the public to disregard any report suggesting a phase-out of the redesigned currency.
The judge, Robert Gettleman, accepted the defendant’s change of plea in a ruling delivered on 6 April.
The judge, however, agreed that since Mr Ekpenyong did not serve the National Assembly with pre-action notice in line with Section 21 of the Legislative Houses Power and Privileges Act, the suit was incompetent against the legislative organ.
“Fake national chairman, go home,” the mob jeered at Mr Apapa, stripping him almost naked as police officers came to his rescue.
The verdict is expected later this year.
Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi State, on Tuesday, said no power can deprive the president-elect, Bola Tinubu of his mandate.
Inferring the intentions of the framers of the Nigerian constitution, INEC said a presidential candidate is expected to have “a national geographical spread and broad acceptability from the Nigerian electorate and not meant to bestow a veto power on the FCT or its electorate over the election of a candidate at a presidential election who has otherwise scored one-quarter of the votes cast in two-thirds of the 36 states except in the FCT.”
The ministry noted that it is open to continuous engagement with the unions to improve their welfare but such agreements can only be reached in an atmosphere of peace.
Mr Wase, from Plateau State, stated that the ruling party must follow the Nigerian constitution in ensuring that the North-central is not excluded from the distribution of offices even though the constitution does not state how such offices should be allocated.
A three-member panel of the court ruled in its judgement delivered on 4 May that Ms Brooks’ petition for a review of the concurrent decisions of the immigration court and the BIA was not substantiated.
It added that between September and October, the index saw a more modest growth of 1.81 per cent, while January experienced a 0.88 per cent increase.
This is in addition to the country’s radars which are all short range.
Did larger crowds turn up for Obi’s rallies than for Tinubu or Atiku?
In the South-south, Mr Obi got 1.2 million (44 per cent) votes, followed by Mr Tinubu with 799,957 votes (29 per cent) and Atiku with 717,908 votes (26 per cent).
Mr Déby-Itno noted that he has spoken to the leaders of both factions.
May God guide you in retirement while we all embark on the challenge of reclaiming the country we knew before you came.
“He and the others in his group grossly violated the provision of our party’s Constitution and took internal matters of the party to court without exhausting all the appropriate instituted channels of resolving disputes.
That may affect the chances of both candidates.
This call across the nation is not a call for undue advantage for women but for consideration of qualified women.
The Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo, Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, SGF, Boss Mustapha, Chief of Staff, Prof. Ibrahim Gambari, Senator Philip Aduda, and CAN Chairman in FCT, Rev.
We have done so by exploiting our differences and turning them into weapons of war.
According to the 2023 AFO, flood is expected to occur in the state from the months of August, September and October.
He expressed happiness that the committee was able to conduct a free and fair primary, urging members to unite to ensure victory.
Mrs Muhammed-Oyebode said the book collected their families’ testimonies of loss and hope beginning in 2015 before any of the girls was found.
“It is my considered opinion that a Nigerian by BIRTH can retain, and maintain dual citizenship for purposes of seeking any elective office(s) in Nigeria till date,” the academic argued.
“We’ve received reports of an illegal declaration of results by the @inecnigeria REC for #Adamawa in violation of S 64 & 65 Electoral Act 2022 & Part 3, INEC guidelines which vests the power to declare results solely on a Returning officer appointed by INEC,” prominent election observation group, Yiaga Africa, wrote on Twitter.
She said she wanted to take the matter up, but her mother asked her to let go of it.
The state also witnessed 25 cases of rape while 215 farms were reportedly destroyed.
Buhari writes Senate, seeks confirmation of Abike Dabiri-Erewa as NiDCOM chair
“Let us recognise their contributions and acknowledge the challenges that they face everyday.
The books for public presentation are: “STATE OF REPAIR: HOW MUHAMMADU BUHARI TRIED TO TRANSFORM NIGERIA FOR THE BETTER” by Anthony Goldman, former Journalist and ex Africa Editor of the Financial Times of London, and “THE LEGACY OF MUHAMMADU BUHARI” by Abu Ibrahim, a former senator of Southern Katsina District.
The party sued the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), PDP and Tambuwal as 1st to 3rd defendants respectively.
Mr Abubakar, who congratulated all the governors-elect and those re-elected on the party’s platform, urged all party members to be united and determined in the party’s effort to reclaim its mandate at the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal (PEPT).
Mr Ibhazukor said the aim is to give the participants a new phase of life, to be useful to themselves and society.
Game six of the series was watched by over 16 million viewers.
He said the petitioners should have brought the total registered voters to court to claim that over-voting occurred.
But in opposition to Mr Ozekhome’s requests, the lawyer to the federal government, Gazali, argued that the SSS detention centre has adequate resources to attend to Kanu’s health needs.
Messrs Erdogan and Kilicdaroglu have said they would accept a run-off and would win it.
The team called it a Disability Inclusive Latrine PAN (DILPAN).
In May 2012, Mr Adah nullified a provision in the Police Act prohibiting a female police officer from marrying a man of her choice without the permission of the commissioner of police in the command where she is serving.
In 2016, his album ‘My World’ featured Tiwa, Savage and Patoranking.
In the publication complained about by the company, Mr Olufemi wrote that Hillcrest factory, a rice milling company, was “permitting its workers to smoke Indian hemp and tobacco on duty.”
At Least 20 Properties in the UK Linked to Nigeria’s President-elect and His Associates
He said that Mr Tinubu failed part of the constitutional requirements having failed to secure 25 per cent of the votes cast in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja, as constitutionally required.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the evacuees arrived at the Pilgrims Terminal of the airport at exactly 10:45 a.m., on board a Max Airline from Egypt.
Of this number, 150 are in their third year of study, nine are in their second year of study and three are in their first year of study.
The embassy continues to closely monitor the situation in Khartoum and surrounding areas, it said in a statement.
He was the only governorship candidate across the country that scored over one million votes.
The government should also begin widespread sensitisation of its security operatives, who must understand that journalists and the media are key elements of democracy.
There were 18 candidates in presidential election which held on 25 February.
Runtime: 1 hour plus
The law shall take the course; you will face the music.
Health experts on Tuesday said Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR) has become one of the biggest threats to global health and that if left unchecked, minor infections could become life-threatening and almost impossible to treat.
While Simone Inzhagi made no changes to his high-flying squad, Stefano Pioli made three changes to last week’s squad.
“When you call out big people that have networks, automatically know that you will always come under verbal attacks everywhere.
But the energy ambition is much larger with a power purchase pact with Konexa that will fully convert the energy source for operations at the two breweries in Kaduna to hydropower already in place.
What remains ineradicable from that weekend of orgiastic rave in social media was the opening up of the dark, putrid recesses in the national psyche that we like to pretend do not exist.
Recall that AMCON was created to be a key stabilising and re-vitalising tool aimed at reviving the financial system by efficiently resolving the non-performing loan assets of the banks in the Nigerian economy.
He won only one local government in Kaduna State – Birnin Gwari.
“Governor Uzodinma’s convoy did not move an inch on Saturday because there was no need since his excellency was busy in the office, from morning till late in the evening, attending to numerous state matters that are dear to his heart and in the interest of the people,” the statement said.
c. Mr. Ukeh Onouha, Managing Director/Editor-in-Chief, The Sun
Some residents of Abuja and its environs have decried the scarcity of the new naira notes.
Responding further, Atiku faulted Mr Tinubu’s victory on the ground that he “holds dual citizenship of Nigeria and Guinea, having voluntarily acquired the citizenship of the Republic of Guinea.”
“I find it expedient at this time to intimate the world on the unfortunate happenings in my constituency, Mangu/Bokkos federal constituency of Plateau state,.
The centre is committed to advancing knowledge and understanding of Africa’s history, culture, and traditions, and to promoting sustainable development and social justice throughout the continent.
Mr Ekere was the chairman of the planning committee for Bola Tinubu’s 2023 presidential campaign rally in Akwa Ibom.
Top Nigerian politician flees Nigeria, alleges threat to life
Justice Ekwo reminded Mr Sheriff that an order was given on the last adjourned date directing him to address the court on whether the court had the jurisdiction to entertain the case or not.
According to him, since approaching the tribunal, he has had an admixture of persuasion and subtle threats to force him to withdraw the petition.
Sedition is an offence in the US where Chimamandi lives.
Except for the Enugu East Senatorial seat and Esan North/Esan South/Igueben federal constituency, others were rolled over from the 25 February national and 18 March state elections.
EXCLUSIVE: Woodberry, Hushpuppi’s ally, pleads guilty to fraud
PT: What are the safeguards for the laudable intentions of the provisions of CAMA that have been nullified?
Mr Halims, in his motion, said the planned concession at the eleventh hour of the current administration is self-serving and not in the national interest.
In July 2018, a month after Erdogan won the presidency, Turkey transitioned from a parliamentary to a presidential system, abolishing the post of prime minister.
SERAP says it will consider suing Mr Buhari if he fails to heed the counsel to launch the probe within seven days.
Mr Abiodun further commiserated with the Owu Royal Family of the late former Attorney-General of the Federation, his friend, Mr Obasanjo, as well as members of the Baptist Boys’ High School Old Students Association.
“This is evident in the numerous projects embarked upon, from several runway construction and rehabilitation projects to new international terminals completed and commissioned.
Mrs Dabiri-Erewa said as the evacuees return to Nigeria, they will be given stipends to help them settle down before joining their families.
According to her, the offences contravene Sections 338, 343, 355 and 249 of the Criminal Code, Laws of Ogun State, 2006.
Crowned by the Archbishop of Canterbury Justin Welby, he became the 40th reigning sovereign.
Like other states in Nigeria’s south-east, security has deteriorated in Anambra State with frequent attacks by armed persons.
The delegation of Nzuko Umunna was led by Ozichukwu Chukwu and Josephine Anenih.
FEMA says the victims were artisans working around the collapsed wall.
Court Orders Interim Forfeiture of N725m, Banana Island Property Linked to Ex-NIMASA DG, Akpobolokemi
Pope Francis has asked us in his Easter message to “go into our own wounds, to look at the tree of our humiliation, the cross of Jesus, to ensure that our hopes are not sealed in a drawer.
Nigeria has always been on the WHO’s Health Workforce Support and Safeguards list which is graded red but what is new is the UK’s renewed effort to adhere to the global body’s advice.
The court did not take the pleas of the defendants for lack of jurisdiction.
It is most effective when given early in the course of the illness.
“Amongst the 36 CPs are; CP Operations, DOPS FHQ, Zubairu Abubakar; CP Homicide FCID Abuja, Fom Joseph; CP Railway, Lagos, Emuobo Ekokotu; CP Counter Terrorism Unit (CTU), Nemi Iwo; CP General Investigations FCID, Abuja, Salman Garba; and CP PAP Western Lagos, Dungus Monguno.
It is ironic that rather than support local wine producers to be more competitive and create more jobs, the government has opted to impose even higher taxes on them,” he said.
The president, who conveyed the approval at the 1st Governing Council meeting of MOFI, recalled that the new MOFI was launched on 1 February 2023 to transform it from a registry of investment records to a World-Class Asset and Investment Management Company.
The Deputy Speaker, Hakeem Jamiu, earlier drew the attention of the police boss to alleged brutality meted out to some Ekiti State University students by some police officers in his constituency.
The commission has a field office in Eket which monitors the operations of oil and gas firms in Akwa Ibom State.
Then he asked someone to slap me.
The seemingly slow process of choosing a new Alaafin of Oyo is causing disquiet in the kingdom one year after the demise of the long-reigning Alaafin Lamidi Adeyemi.
In his acceptance speech, Mr Sylva, a former governor of the state, solicited the support of other contestants in order to secure victory for the APC.
“I wrote a petition to the police that (Mr) Njoku forged the judgement he is using in parading (himself) as national chairman of our party,” Mr Odu told the court.
“What remains is the Port Sudan side and that will be completed in the next few days, probably in the next 48 hours,” he said.
The federal government says the maintenance works will restore the driving surface and the aesthetics of the bridge.
I want to just die,” says the mother.
Currently, there are ten other aspirants in the race.
The Senate also at plenary confirmed the appointment of Abdu Abubakar as non -executive director of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN).
He said personnel budgets of health facilities should be spent on maintaining more numbers of frontline healthcare workers to improve quality and effective service delivery.
Also, Mr Obi is present in court for Wednesday’s proceedings
INEC fixed April 15 for supplementary governorship elections in the two states and in five senatorial districts.
According to him, there is no greater threat to people aged 5-29 years than road traffic crashes, as one in every four deaths occurs among pedestrians and cyclists.
Reps ask INEC to delist voters who didn’t vote in recent polls from register
“Before you know what was going on, some individuals surrounded my car banging on the owner’s side asking me to come down that I had hit and wounded a hawker.
“So we do not yet know if the Supreme Elections Committee (YSK) will announce another round of elections,” said Shawki.
In Sokoto, supplementary elections are to hold for all three senatorial seats –Sokoto North, Sokoto East and Sokoto South– where the exercise was earlier declared inconclusive.
No plan to withdraw redesigned naira notes from circulation – CBN
He lauded the steadfastness of Nigerian workers, who continued to keep the “wheels” of the country running, in spite of our national challenges.
Legally speaking, the issue is now subjudice.
He said since her arrival at the facility, the patient is currently in isolation at IDH and “placed on the appropriate medication for Lassa fever and is being reviewed by appropriate specialists, including infectious disease experts, gynecologist, nephrologist and hematologist.”
Johnnie Carson says Bola Tinubu has three things that his opponents did not have going to the presidential election
The loss was recorded after the company partially settled accrued foreign currency-denominated obligations to trade partners, which Nigeria’s foreign exchange scarcity has blown out of proportion in recent years.
Speakership: Tinubu ‘settles’ for Abbas, Kalu as speaker, deputy
Expectations are high that the 2023 set of Nigeria’s U-17 team, led by Coach Nduka Ugbade, will do Nigeria proud as they kick-start their quest for a third African title since 2007.
In Nigeria, Persons With Disability (PWDs) may now heave a sigh of relief as the difficulties hitherto being experienced in their efforts to access news and be updated on happenings around them may have been resolved through an innovative application launched in Lagos on Tuesday.
“The contractor is KSR3 Global Nigeria Limited.
Other aspirants include Deputy Speaker Idris Wase (APC, Plateau), Ben Kalu (APC, Abia), Muktar Betara (APC, Borno), Sada Soli (APC, Katsina), Tunji Olawuyi (APC, Kwara) and Abubakar Makki (APC, Jigawa).
Kaoje also revealed that the parents of the remaining seven students were still in the bush making negotiations with the bandits for their release too.
COVID-19: Global health systems now recovering from pandemic – WHO
The president said this was by providing opportunities for cross-cultural interactions and establishing formidable bridges for improved understanding.
After a meeting with the Vatican’s chief prosecutor, her brother Pietro once again spoke out about the case on a TV programme on Tuesday.
Onuoha: Well, the first thing first will be to reposition the House with a reorientation of the real task of nation-building and the task of the legislature.
He was governor of Anambra State for eight years on the platform of the APGA, a period during which he recorded no remarkable accomplishments beyond claims that he saved humongous amounts for the state while leaving behind largely decrepit and dilapidated infrastructure.
“Lagos State Government has immediately activated inquiries into the collapse to unravel the minute details and guide appropriate actions.”
The report added that the states with the lowest percentage increase during this period were Awka and the Trade Fair Market, with a 2.9 per cent rise.
APC suspends Gemade, others for anti-party activities
The Labour Party, now Nigeria's third-largest party, also expelled some of the party's leaders.
Mr Dangote expressed his readiness to lead the way, pledging that his Aliko Dangote Foundation (ADF) will further strengthen its engagements with the various key partners in “Nigeria and globally to support the efforts to address malaria in our workplaces, communities, and especially high burden areas to attain our collective goal of malaria elimination by 2030”.
The ICC arrest warrants for Mr al-Bashir, and Kenya’s Uhuru Kenyatta and William Ruto, who both became presidents, provoked anger in the AU and an instruction to member states to not cooperate with the court.
To the incoming President: I am hopeful that you will appreciate that the most urgent task facing our nation is not infrastructure or the usual cheap talk about dividends of Democracy.
Atiku and the PDP are also challenging the outcome of the poll.
Speaking at a short event on Wednesday in the State House, to decorate the CPSO, Aliyu Musa, with his new rank of Police Commissioner, Mr Buhari said he was very impressed by the officer’s “loyalty and for my personal security.
Sedition is a transnational crime defined as the “inciting by words or writing to show disaffection towards the state or constituted authority”.
The Director General of Nigeria’s National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC), Mojisola Adeyeye, announced the development on Monday in Abuja.
The appeal was fixed to be heard, if reasonably possible, before 14 July or as soon as reasonably possible thereafter, according to a court document posted by Mr Ejimakor on his Twitter handle.
“As part of this scheme, Donald Trump and others made three payments to people who claim to have negative information about Mr Trump.
“Do we try to restrict these people and infringe on their fundamental human right or apportion more resources to the medical profession,” he said.
Mr Atewe is being prosecuted by the EFCC alongside Patrick Akpobolokemi, a former Director-General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Kime Enzogu and Josephine Otuaga on 22 counts of conspiracy, stealing and money laundering.
Mr Maikyau, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), said the 26th NBA president was released after exactly 14 days in captivity.
Mr Maikyau, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), made the commendation in a statement on Monday, to commemorate the International Workers’ Day celebration.
I can confirm to you that the resident doctors of the National Hospital have also joined the strike as of this morning.”
“I am hopeful that you will appreciate that the most urgent task facing our nation is not infrastructure or the usual cheap talk about dividends of Democracy.
Before now, Nigerian filmmakers downplayed sex scenes and obscenity in their movies.
Fashola’s spokesperson did not respond to requests for comment.
“As I said earlier, a total of 2,371 evacuees have safely returned home as of Saturday, May 13.
The court said the party had filed no motion or application to inform it of the plan to change the counsel for the party at the tribunal.
),” Mr Keyamo wrote.
The anointed candidates of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for Senate President and Deputy Senate President, Godswill Akpabio and Barau Jibirin, have paid a courtesy visit to the outgoing governor of Katsina State, Aminu Masari.
2023 Election: Chimamanda replies APC, disagrees with Soyinka
Speaking further, he lauded the management of the NDDC for embarking on the summit themed “Rewind to Rebirth”, describing it as the start of a new dawn in making the Commission retrace its steps back to the original objectives of its formation as an intervention agency for the development of the Niger Delta.
Count 15 has to do with the illegal importation of a radio transmitter he declared as used household items in violation of section 47 (2) (a) of the Criminal Code Act.
They specifically kicked against the zoning of the position of the speaker to the North-west.
President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the immediate suspension from office of Barr.
Senate Presidency: 69 senators-elect have endorsed me – Akpabio
This leak did not come to light until it was reported by the New York Times last week even though the documents were posted on a social media website weeks earlier.
Mr Ashafa said that the balance of N2 billion of construction cost came from the Authority’s other projects which was ploughed into it to complete the estate.
suit to take any extra-judicial steps, or to embark on any course of action that is either tantamount to, or calculated to undermine the
He described the supplementary elections as the last leg of the 2023 general election that will solidify the victory of his party.
The governor gave the pledge during the 2023 Workers’ Day celebration on Monday in Ibadan.
“He also tasked them to ensure compliance with all standard operating procedures in the discharge of their responsibilities.
Contacted by OCCRP, Bozimo denied that either he or any member of his family received bribes during his tenure as minister.
The properties, worth millions of naira, are inside the popular Centenary Estate, otherwise known as the Centenary City and on a large expanse of land, measuring 1,097 hectares.
It further observed that widespread reports by firms indicated that customers were unable to commit to spending in the face of the cash crunch, echoing a broader deterioration in business conditions within the private sector.
“At that time we bought money in the market at N25, 000 for N100, 000 and sold between N3, 500 and N4, 000 for N10, 000,” he said.
Mr Ozekhome also informed CCB that Atiku already responded to the originating summon by the Federal High Court.
Anti-monarchy groups have defended their right to protest, but the police have warned that “tolerance for any disruption, whether through protest or otherwise, will be low”.
He said the attacks were carried out by suspected killer herdsmen, noting that none of the perpetrators have been arrested since the incident.
“As a result of this there is nothing you want to say or do, they will find a way to twist it and make it what they want it to look like,” he said.
In a condolence message issued by his spokesperson, Femi Adesina, on Sunday in Abuja, Mr Buhari prayed for God’s comfort for Mr Akinfeleye and family at this trying period of grief.
He said it became necessary as their land was being used to implement the construction of the 844 housing unit for Plateau workers.
A younger brother to the IPOB leader, Kingsley Kanu, said their family was delighted that the court has “unhesitatingly recognised the importance and urgency” of the Kanu’s case, Mr Ejimakor said.
“A few years ago, to prevent our forests from becoming ungoverned spaces, where terrorists, bandits, kidnappers and allied criminal actors situate their bases and camping grounds, we embarked on the registration of farmers in our forest reserves as part of our security strategy.
Inside the abbey, bedecked with flowers and flags, politicians and representatives from Commonwealth nations took their seats alongside charity workers and celebrities, including actors Emma Thompson, Maggie Smith, Judi Dench and U.S. singer Katy Perry.
“No matter our present realities, let us press on toward faith, be steadfast in love and guard our peace at all times.
“With this undertaking, this application for bail on medical grounds does not hold water.
“The programme aligns with UNICEF’s objectives to enhance maternal and child healthcare.
The project is organised in collaboration with the UN Human Rights Resident in Nigeria, Ford foundation and the Legal Defence and Assistance Project (LEDAP).
Fascism is a really strong word that often made me think of Missolouni’s Italy but we use it now to address this kind of authoritarianism that often populates the right wing like in Hungry and even the former American President and if you look at these situations you can see why they have been tamed fascist.
Speaking earlier on the development, JAMB’s spokesperson, Mr Benjamin, told PREMIUM TIMES: “When we started the registration, the offices were nearly empty, and candidates were not coming.
Counsel for the appellant, Adegboyega Awomolo, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), said they filed their notice of preliminary objection on April 25, with a written address urging the court to allow the appeal and strike out the respondents preliminary objection.
“INEC has supplied 2,917 ballot papers for the six polling units,’’ Tella said.
This is their sixth qualification.
The two categories Unilever is exiting from currently form the crux of its Home and Personal Care division, which has accounted for the lion’s share of the company’s revenues and profit before tax (PBT) in the last two years.
NAN reports that the National and State House of Assembly Election Petition Tribunal had on April 7, struck out a petition filed by NNPP seeking to restrain INEC from conducting supplementary polls in Tudun Wada/ Doguwa Federal constituency in the state.
Mr Audi ordered the embattled Adamawa commander of NSCDC to immediately hand over the command to his deputy in order to ensure smooth investigation.
“The point I am making here, which needs to be repeated, is that by logical and accountable use of data, if there were a need of 17 million and 1 unit was provided, one would expect that the need would reduce by 1 (one).”
“As we turn 20, we are entering a new decade for LinkedIn, one that will perhaps be the most consequential we’ve experienced to date.
They’ve claimed that it was during that time that he committed mass murders, particularly against civilians at Waterside in Monrovia.
Mr Ikpo, who is the head of Zion Chambers, Uyo, spoke to the journalists on how to avoid committing libel in their reporting.
The report said its findings around the facilities include “visible gas leaks along pipelines that are generally poorly installed, not sufficiently maintained, run overground, and alongside roads and settlements.”
The current $800m World Bank facility is meant to expand the delivery framework for shock responsive social protection system in Nigeria, with at least 10.2 million households targeted to benefit from the programme.
He, therefore, commended the judges for their resilience and sheer determination to deliver justice within the time frame.
Only about ten states recorded more than 30 per cent turnout and participation in other states was a little more than 20 per cent.
Effective implementation of criminal justice laws remains top priority – Malami
In the memoir, Hadiza quotes Mr Amaechi as telling mediators she was selfish and did nothing for him.
“It is hereby ordered that all exhibits or documents of the parties be returned to them.”
This project is good for the Nigerian economy, for the travelling people.”
According to her, it will also help discover officers who are addicted to hard drugs or alcohol and rehabilitate them.
According to him, Mr Tinubu, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate, undoubtedly won the polls and will be sworn-in come May 29, except something happens dramatically with the court.
He also said he was going to honour an invitation he got from the police.
The documents added that the action contravened Section 36 (1)(a) and 71 of the Immigration Act 2015 and is punishable under Section 36 (2) and Section 71 (a) of the Immigration Act 2015.
From Mr Adejobi’s post, the number of officers who were involved in the assault are three, and not two as previously reported by this newspaper.
Should the tide favour you by zoning or anything, then the men will not be regarded as to say it can never be her because you have softened their hearts.
“Special thanks to all those who worked so hard for this; special thanks to the good people of Adamawa State for smashing this hoodoo of gender bias; special thanks to the APC for making this possible; special thanks to President Muhammadu Buhari for providing such sterling leadership; special thanks to Nigerians for your support and prayers!
However, just before the halftime whistle, Mabena fired South Africa back in front with a thunderous strike that rattled the crossbar before crossing the line.
A policeman and a journalist were also injured at the scene.
If they had put the same energy into trying to resolve this instead of silencing us, it would have been resolved amicably by just arresting the guard without dragging the school.
“The resort to blackmail by squatters who have granted themselves ownership and appointed Baale for themselves will not stand.”
A new report has shown that Nigeria accounts for the second-highest number of maternal and child deaths globally.
He said investing in satellite systems is a way forward for airlines to cut operational costs.
“This week we will also be commissioning some power projects.
If you don’t work, there will be no pay, he said.
But, Mr Ari usurped the duties and powers of the State Returning Officer, Mohammed Mele, a professor at the University of Maiduguri.
Soludo threatens to sanction workers who obey IPOB’s sit-at-home order
According to Mr Gambo, after the foiled attempts of 2015, the government had stopped its “illegal efforts to claim the land until about a week ago when the government through its Ministry of Urban Planning and Development (KASUPDA) wrote again seeking excision of unutilised land along the stretch of River Kaduna for security reasons.”
The incorporation was done months after Mr Tinubu assumed power as governor of Nigeria’s business capital Lagos State.
Others are the Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the APC, Murtala Ajaka, and Smart Adeyemi, the senator representing Kogi West Senatorial District.
The Inspector General of Police Usman Baba has commenced efforts toward renovation, demolition and rebuilding of dilapidated structures in police barracks across Nigeria.
He also holds an MBA in marketing from the University of Nigeria, Nsukka.
In attendance during the meeting were the five governors from the South-east: Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi (Enugu) Charles Soludo (Anambra), Dave Umahi (Ebonyi State, represented by his Deputy, Kelechi Igwe), Okezie Ikpeazu (Abia, represented by his Deputy, Ude Chukwu) and Hope Uzodinma (Imo, represented by his Deputy, Placid Njoku).
“NEC accordingly calls on the judiciary to do the right thing irrespective of whose ox is gored,’’ the statement also read.
Supplementary elections are taking place in Sokoto State for the three senatorial and 11 federal constituency seats.
While speaking on loyalty to the party and country, Mr Damagum acknowledged that the party is going through internal crisis but noted that has the capacity to deal with its internal crisis.
Ogbulu, a professor.
Mr Umahi, a member of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), stated this when he appeared as a guest on Channels TV’s Politics Today, Monday night.
The four sisters and Mr Kalu are also facing trial, accused of assaulting the officers who came to arrest Mr Ohadoma.
The NDLEA spokesperson also said men of the agency’s Directorate of Operations and Investigation attached to courier firms, on Thursday intercepted 1.53 kilogrammes of skunk.
The leadership crisis rocking the Labour Party (LP) deepened on Tuesday as it suspended a factional leader, Lamidi Apapa, its National Deputy Chairman (South) and some other officials.
The application’s assistive features to ensure persons with visual impairment, auditory challenges, and some limb challenges get access to the news with ease.
This was disclosed in a communiqué issued at the end of the FAAC meeting for April 2023.
“From what I have been told all of the four buildings at the back have never even applied for approvals.
“Noncommunicable diseases now account for more than 70 per cent of all deaths globally.
It serves as a nexus for collaboration, innovation, and partnership between the two nations, fostering an environment conducive to sustainable and inclusive economic growth.
Bunza, a professor of Biological Sciences, as Director, General Studies; Sirajo Bakura as Deputy Director Students Industrial Work Experience Scheme (SIWES); Abubakar Musa as Deputy Director, Entrepreneurship; Ahmad Saidu as Deputy Director, School of Basic Studies, and Yazid Salihu as Deputy Director, Information and Communication Technology (ICT).
Also, Mr Oshiomhole has a close relationship with Mr Tinubu from their Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) days, while Mr Akpabio stepped down for the president-elect at the primaries.
“The inspector-general of police has given clear assurance that every individual involved/indicted in the matter will be apprehended and investigated in line with the provisions of the law for possible prosecution.”
“Those who wanted to make our lives uncomfortable reached the FCT, and they have been marginalized,’’ he added.
PREMIUM TIMES reported the difficulties Nigerians face in getting their international passports despite paying the required fees.
At this time, not less than 3,000 Sudanese researchers were said to have eloped Sudan between 2002 and 2014, so much that, by 2013, Sudan’s student-researcher ratio stood at a mere 19 -100,000 citizens, or 1/30.
“There shouldn’t be a factor because you must agree that in the South-east, there is a candidate whether we like it or not.
He, therefore, urged the court to refuse the second defendant’s application.
The suspension orders approved by President Muhammadu Buhari followed a request for the probe of the accounts of the NPA made by Mr Amaechi.
JAMB recently barred privately-owned computer-based test centres from participating in the registration for direct entry applicants and instructed applicants to approach any of its offices nationwide for registration.
Also, Mr Abbas (North-west) and Ben Kalu (South-east) have been topped as speaker and deputy speaker respectively.
“There is currently no stay of proceedings in this court, and the defendants appear not to be diligent in prosecuting their appeal while at the same time, they continue to disobey the orders of this court and also are trying to do acts that will prejudice the other side.
We risk losing our readers’ interest and trust if we don’t clearly understand what they want,” said PREMIUM TIMES Digital Strategy and Technology Lead, Richard Akinwumi.
“The rescheduling of all the candidates, who missed the examination is as a result of the mistake made in the address of the centre, which had led to some candidates missing their examination,” he said.
Anger against injustice and misuse of power is a just cause.
Luxury cars, including Rolls Royce Cullinan and Lamborghini Urus, top the list of his Dubai assets that he agreed to forfeit to the US government.
News of building collapse is quite common in Nigeria’s commercial hub.
Mr President, do this for Nigeria and you will be remembered as the most valuable legislator of all time.
The question remains which and, perhaps more importantly, how long this will last.
Dare, the younger son of the general overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, RCCG, Enoch Adeboye, is the founder of the foundation.
This made the commission to conduct supplementary election in the two polling units on Saturday.
EXCLUSIVE: Russia-Ukraine War: Report identifies risks in expansion of Nigeria’s gas production
“That is what the sections of the constitution stated very clearly.
He will be accompanied by his aides, Mr Shehu said.
NAN reports that the president last performed the Umrah in 2021.
If there were some errors I am coming to correct them.
The examination council said it has established a self-service system for candidates, through the CHATBOT Platform, to enable them to access their entries.
“Nigeria, yet to embrace technology and technologists, has over the years become net importers of manufactured goods and has generally witnessed a poor standard of living, net negative balance sheet, and low per capita income.”
It can become the blood of our new birth, our redemption.
“It is for these reasons, and their fulfilment, Distinguished Senator, that I have decided to declare my intention to contest the office of the President of the Senate of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.
The Akwa Ibom State Government in 2018 proscribed 32 cult groups in the state to tackle the rising cult violence in the state.
To give legitimacy to the widely acknowledged fraudulent election in Nigeria.
Speaking after taking one of the subjects in the UTME, a visually-impaired candidate, Franklin Ifeanyi, commended JAMB for considering their plight by making the special arrangements for them.
Mr Jalingo, who asserted the preparedness of the commission for the 2023 census, said the NPC had prepared the ground for the first-ever digital census in Nigeria.
When the school principal delivered the letter, we told him to exercise patience.
But despite the pending charge against the defendants, the Supreme Court, acting on a request by Mr Njoku, affirmed him as the national chairman of APGA in a ruling delivered in March this year.
This has since been done, and further makes it illogical for Chiamamandi to resort to writing letters capable of inciting ethnic or violent reactions in Nigeria while she resides in the comfort of the US, her new found home or haven, which was fought for and procured with hard labour and commitment of Americans.
“Thanks to our partnership with @Oando_PLC, Lagosians can expect a cleaner and greener public transportation system.
Their reach in the commercial and diplomatic spheres gives Africa options beyond the great powers.
Mr Adejobi said the IGP also approved the postings and redeployment of 36 Commissioners of Police (CPs) to various commands and formations.
This is counterproductive to the anti-corruption crusade itself, that is if Malam Bawa is actually committed to one.
“Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) will be fully deployed for the election.
We like the fact that you come very straight.
Hudu Yunusa Ari and if found culpable, appropriate disciplinary actions, to be meted out to them.
Mr Abdullahi’s appointment wasn’t sure confirmed by the university’s governing council, during its 26th meeting held from 10 to 11 May, Jamilu Magaji, the university’s spokesperson, said in a statement.
Nigerian govt seeks extradition of brothers, co-suspect to face trial in US
He appealed to State and Federal governments, the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) and Ondo State Oil Producing Development Commission (OSOPADEC) to come to their rescue.
He claimed that chairmen of the 44 local governments in the state were planning to use funds belonging to their local councils to support the outgoing government.
By the way, Chimamanda does not explain Obi’s victory in Lagos, Tinubu’s stronghold, in an election she says was badly rigged and lacking credibility.
The breakdown of cases shows that the ten non-endemic countries with the highest cumulative number of cases globally continue to be the United States of America, Brazil, Spain, France, Colombia, Mexico, Peru, the United Kingdom, Germany and Canada.
In Nigeria, which hosts one of ICRC’s largest operations by expenditure (75.5 million CHF or $82.4 million in 2021), the head of the delegation, Yanna Bozon, had told staff in late March that “downsizing and cutting down of our operations” should be expected, PREMIUM TIMES learnt from sources who participated in the meeting.
“We will make sure that all projects initiated by this government are completed and utilized for the benefit of our entire populace.
Similarly, Mr Obi of the LP won in Lagos State, where Mr Tinubu served as the governor between 1999 and 2007.
Consequently, the House mandated the Committee to investigate all crude oil exports and sales by Nigeria from 2014 to date, with regards to quantity, insurance, revenue generated, remittances into the Federation Account or other accounts as well as utilisation of the revenue for the period under review.
“They confessed their involvement in a series of armed robberies and kidnapping in Ughelli and Warri and the April 27 kidnap of Mr and Mrs Okutonye Efetobore at Ughellli town.
For, I shall gladly tell thee, the tale of their nights
“We do not give the spellers words to learn, they have to study words from the dictionary.
The motion was sponsored by Uche Ekwunife (PDP-Anambra).
Also speaking, Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, said 75 contractors were engaged in the course of the project, while over 13,000 Nigerians were employed both directly and indirectly.
See the results of the supplementary election below
That translates to about 70 per cent of the population.
“In view of the above, you are hereby requested to report at the INTERPOL National Central Bureau (NCB) Abuja office, Police Force Headquarters, Shehu Shagari Way, Central Area, Abuja to interview the Assistant Inspector General of Police, INTERPOL National Central Bureau (NCB), Abuja on Friday 5 May, 2023 at 1000hrs.”
Declaring the induction open, Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, said that at the outset, the 9th Senate was mindful of the damaging effect of persistent conflict with the executive and the resultant impact on legislative activities.
“Ten of them mostly youth were shot dead at close range after their hands were tight to their back.
Working with the largest team of country managers in the institution, she was engaged in the full complexity of its lending and non-lending operations in middle-income and low-income countries.
He said the effect of the report was that all certified true documents would not be objected to.
“It is only God that is merciful.
“It is my candid opinion that it is an ill-conceived distraction that will fizzle out,” he said.
“These men have been arrested, and their commander will personally bring (them) to the Force Headquarters tomorrow Tuesday for further actions.
The governing board deemed it fit to acknowledge the role you have played and your outstanding achievements,” Mal.
He added that it was essential that increasing numbers of people and increasing incomes per capita in China, India, and throughout the world did not undermine efforts to move towards more sustainable consumption and production.
Mr Ologunagba also urged the INEC chairman, Mahmood Yakubu, to immediately direct Mr Mele to continue the collation process.
“They were to meet the ECOWAS delegation in Monrovia,” said Defence 1.
The matter had been adjourned for judgement before the exit of the two judges.
Under his leadership, Mastercard launched the Center for Inclusive Growth, which advances equitable and sustainable economic growth and financial inclusion around the world.
Mr Tsoho, during one of the programmes for the 2022/2023 Legal Year, assured judges and staff of a better welfare package.
A magistrate’s court in Zuba, Abuja, on Tuesday adjourned until May 10, the trial of a pastor of the House on the Rock Refuge Church, Uche Aigbe, who was caught on camera welding a gun during a church service.
We should not forget that they are one of the world’s most powerful and cost-effective public health tools available and have successfully helped to eradicate, eliminate, and manage many deadly infectious diseases.
The IPOB leader, the government said, was standing trial for the “commission of offences of conspiracy, treasonable felony and terrorism before his escape.”
The aggrieved lawmakers, who have been re-elected and all seek to become the speaker, have formed a coalition called the Coalition of Progressive Speakership Aspirants (COPSA).
Mr Omotosho said statutory bodies “must be served with a notice of intention to sue them.”
The magistrate, however, adjourned the matter until 10 May for definite hearing in the interest of justice and fair hearing.
“He further confessed that he (Risku) conspired with his friend, Umar Awara from Lokoja, who equally invited eight others from Zamfara [namely] Idrisu, Shadai, Yeli, Yusuf, and others presently at large, with the said Haruna Umar.
I’m the oldest, there’s no senator today in APC, of South-east or South-south that is older than me in the Senate and that is an institution that believes in ranking.
The minister, who also served as a spokesperson for president-elect Bola Tinubu’s campaign organisation during the 2023 presidential election, captioned the video to show that he was trying to keep fit while enjoying his vacation.
US imposes visa ban on Nigerians who disrupted 2023 elections
So also was the earlier two-year war between Eritrea and Ethiopia.
“If you, or someone you know, have used the product or suffered any adverse reaction after use, please seek immediate medical advice,” she advised.
Things will never be the same again.
“While condemning the act, the Governor commiserates with the victims and assures that the murderers will not be allowed to go unpunished as this is an act that can neither be tolerated or excused no matter the motivation.
Mr Maikyau was quoted to have expressed his concern over “the unfortunate incident,” praying “for God’s intervention on the difficulties the family is going through.”
“If you take the statistic of 2015 and that of today you will see improvement.
Other defendants in the case were five companies: Geonel Integrated Services Limited, Unity Continental Nigeria Limited, Helpline Organisation, Vibrant Resource Limited and Sologic Integrated Service Limited listed as 5th to 9th defendants respectively.
“I will not pretend that I was shocked to receive such a message,” he added.
Nigerian Army rescues two more Chibok girls in Borno
The party said Mr Tinubu’s “under oath in his INEC Form CF001 in 1999, that he attended these schools (Government College, Obadan; Richard Daley College, Chicago, University of Chicago and Chicago State University) were all false and perturbed.”
“Who are you, Peter Obi?
While reiterating his commitment to building a Nigeria that will be beneficial to every Nigerian, Mr Obi said the struggle to reclaim this mandate (alleged victory at the poll) is not about him but about millions of Nigerians who placed their trust in him through their votes.
The Stolen Daughters of Chibok is a tribute to the resilience and courage of the Chibok families, who have refused to relinquish hope despite adversity.”
In his comments, the Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, Zubairu Dada, disclosed that no Nigerian has been killed in Sudan since the conflict broke out on 15 April.
The First Lady said the mission targetted the needy, especially those children with critical heart conditions, to give them hope for a fulfilled life, and seeing them fully recovered and revived to good health served as motivation to do more.
“Do you know why he won, he got the money, he had the best national organisation that worked for him and the ground game,’’ he said.
So, it is in the form of an election,” he said.
“Around 1 p.m. today, I met with Wase, the deputy speaker.
Nigeria’s manufacturing activity rebounds in April as cash crisis eases
He said these other factors the court would consider include the availability of appropriate or adequate or peculiar medical care where the defendant/applicant is in custody.
“I am confident that our dear former President is strong in spirit and shall wade through this challenging experience successfully.
Consequently, judge Aliyu Kani of the Upper Shari’a Court, convicted Mr Yahaya-Sharif based on Section 382 (b) of the Kano penal code of 2000.
“This is evident in the definite actions taken to utilize CNG and LNG to power vehicles, buildings and power plants.
I believe in the equality of members, and in equal opportunities both on the floor and in committee.
Aviation experts discuss sustainability issues amid challenges
“Report all perpetrators.
The health department in Taipei, Taiwan’s capital, had said it detected ethylene oxide in two types of instant noodles, including the Indomie chicken flavour, following random inspections.
Still, as time went on, it was brought on board, which the court declared admissible despite protestations by the defence.
With the postponement of the census, Mr Ortom urged the federal government to “ensure… Nigerians whose communities have been taken over by bandits and armed herders regain their lands and return home.”
He said that the last election was largely the least violent in the history of Nigeria.
According to him, the states where the roads are sited include Edo, Delta, Kano, Kaduna, Borno and Adamawa.
“What they are doing is to enforce their will and distract and force labour party nationwide to withdraw the case in court.”
Mr Maikyau, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), maintained the same number of standing committees as his predecessor, Olumide Akpata, but increased the membership by about 500.
(Again, this is verifiable.
The Imo lawmaker is the latest in the long list of members that have joined the race.
He urged the government and civil society organisations to work together to get accurate data on PWDs in Nigeria to amplify the implementation of the policy.
The April output figure represented the lowest production rate the nation has recorded in 2023.
Mr Gbajabiamila also said the House would revisit the law that made the NEMA the agency responsible for taking charge of evacuations for a possible review.
There is only one female among them.
Gov Ortom lauds Buhari for postponing 2023 census
“With this enabled, you will need to enter a custom PIN every time you log in to WhatsApp from a new device, adding an extra layer of security to your account.
Mr Tinubu won the presidential election in Oyo State, and pulled a surprise result in Rivers State, by defeating Peter Obi of the Labour Party and Atiku.
He said the vehicle and military uniform were recovered from them.
Closely related to the above is Bill No.
They were the National Legal Adviser, National Financial Secretary, National Youth Leader and National Publicity Secretary, respectively.
The rest of the co-respondents Solel Boneh (Nigeria) Limited, the subject matter of the suit, and the CAC, the regulatory body on company matters.
Chimamanda will be lucky if she does not have to prove this weighty allegation in court.
He thanked Mr Buhari for his unflinching support for the actualisation of the project.
To make these payments, they set up shell companies and they made yet more false statements including for example in AMI business records, one of the three people that they paid to keep quiet was a woman named Steve Stormy Daniels less than two weeks before the presidential election,” Mr Braggs narrated.
“We are, therefore, demanding that the age of retirement and length of service in the entire public service, including the civil service, be reviewed upward to 65 years of age and 40 years of service,” he said.
“I told Nigerians that Tinubu is not sick and that he will return soon and a few days after I made that comment, today you can see for yourself that he is here.
The All Progressives Congress (APC) on Wednesday prayed the Presidential Election Petition Court (PEPC) in Abuja to dismiss the petition filed by the PDP challenging the election of Sen. Bola Tinubu in the 25 February poll.
‘’The old notes in circulation should be limited if the December deadline will be feasible,” he said.
Brokers note the recalcitrance of building contractors to adhere to extant regulatory prescriptions concerning public buildings in the country.
The president-elect, Bola Tinubu, and Mr Shettima are both Muslims and their party was severely criticised for fielding a same-faith ticket in a country with many religious faiths.
“The gentlemanly agreement was reached and announced at a stakeholders meeting of the party held on Thursday in Lokoja,’’ he said.
The project, he said, commenced in November 2021 after a groundbreaking ceremony was performed by the Chief of Staff to the President, Ibrahim Gambari, a professor.
Mr Tsammani, who heads the Abuja division of the appellate court, advised lawyers against frivolous applications that could delay proceedings at the court.
Yahaya Danjuma Lawali (Mahanaim FC)
Atiku said that the people of Adamawa would not allow themselves to be cheated three times in a row.
Beginning from Monday, 15 May, the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) may have concluded plans to extend the registration for candidates seeking direct entry admission to universities nationwide.
Why Tinubu administration must discontinue Buhari’s sharing formula – Mimiko
If you would like to complete the survey, please click here.
Villagers said the terrorists have teamed up with another notorious bandit, Usman Moɗi-Moɗi, who has been terrorising residents of the area.
Late Mrs Ihedioha was born to Okereke royal family in Ngor Okpala Local Government Area of Imo State.
Within the period, many other banks boosted profit through hikes in lending rates that enabled them to charge more for loans.
Subsequently, the APC team demanded the release of “comprehensive handover notes covering the period of the outgoing administration (from) 2015 – 2023 for all Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs), including the debt profile and the state of finances of the State.”
A Federal High Court in Abuja had restrained the party from investigating the former governor.
NASS Leadership: Groups express outrage over zoning template allegedly endorsed by Tinubu, APC
And whether you like it or not, no matter how educated you are, we are talking about Nigeria, not just competence.
“In Nigeria, over 40,000 persons die annually as a result of this avoidable scourge,“ he said.
Net profit margin, a key profitability gauge measuring how much of revenue has turned to profit (after-tax), stood at 5 per cent for the fiscal year 2022, just a little higher than the 4.8 per cent reported by the company one year prior.
Mr Ojo stated that even the concession made by political parties for PWDs had little or no impact.
“Sometimes ago, the Ministry of Lands, Housing and Infrastructure informed us of the area upon the creation of Ondo State on February 3, 1976, and this is one of the greatest immovable assets that we have as a state,” Mrs Fagbemi said.
Why we’ll not accept any position other than deputy senate president – North-central senators-elect
“The attempts to manipulate Nigerians is very sad and wicked.
Buhari, others hail Osinbajo at public presentation of book in VP’s honour
The AA’s petition is one of the five petitions filed at the Presidential Election Petition Court against Mr Tinubu’s victory.
A statement signed by Abdulaziz Abdulaziz on Wednesday from the office of the president-elect quoted Mr Tinubu as saying that “I will not marginalise any region, but will leave legacy projects across the length and breadth of Nigeria,” he said at the opening of Rumuokwuta/Rumuola Flyover Bridge.
JAMB spokesman, Fabian Benjamin, said the information on the slip is to help the candidates locate their computer based test (CBT) centres with ease.
In all, most of you did well, but some of your colleagues lost their lives in the hands of members of your own groups.
“This contract responds to the questions on potholes that have become manifest on the entire pavement of the deck of the bridge spanning 11 eleven kilometres and the interchanges—Adeniji Adele, Adekunle and Gbagada ramps that all link the bridge; this is for the resurfacing of all that.
Mr Waive was first elected in 2019 and has been re-elected for another term.
The police have failed to account for the whereabouts of Mr Asadu, despite being arrested alongside her sister.
This shows how the National Assembly and its leaders have been countering divisive forces in the country.
Sokoto State especially the eastern part of the state that includes Gwadabawa, Rabah, Isa, Sabon Birni, Gwaranyo, Wurno has been witnessing series of terrorists’ activities for years.
Digital Inclusion: Hope rises for Nigerian PWDs as TheCable launches news application
NHRC hails Nigerian journalists on World Press Freedom Day
He said the company has a deep understanding of the significant challenges that people living with the condition continually face.
When contacted, the Chief Medical Director (CMD) of IDH Yaba, Bowale Abimbola, confirmed the Lassa fever case but failed to respond to the allegations.
He also expressed gratitude to state governors and other guests present at the event for their support and cooperation throughout the eight years of his stewardship as vice president.
The offences breached Section 97 and 392 of the Penal Code Law.
“Can you disclose who got this contract and the company’s directors?” a user who tweets via the handle @asiyarodrigo noted.
I call on the NWC of our great Party to follow the path of purity and Justice.
May God bless his family.
Only one lawmaker, Francis Waive, from Delta State has interest in running for the position of deputy speaker.
NASA as a professional body was inaugurated on 20 March 1971 in UI, following a pre-inauguration meeting held on 15 January 1971 and chaired by Essien Udom, a professor.
• Ibrahim Hassan Dakwambo Gombe North
“Furthermore, salaries of local government staff are up to date save for the inherited five months arrears, out of which three months has been paid and the outstanding two months is being addressed,” he claimed.
“The supplementary polls have now brought the 2023 elections to a final, fitting conclusion.
Anyone/media peddling rumours of my endorsement of any of the aspirants should desist forthwith,” the tweet reads.
He stressed that the portal had no role to play in the collation of election results.
The permanent secretary noted that in order to eliminate logistic challenges faced by exporters, NEPC, “in collaboration with relevant stakeholders, has launched a Domestic Warehouse Initiative, which is a one-stop facility or terminal, for storage of products, packaging and branding in preparation for ultimate transportation to ports”.
Nosimot Alalade, who resides at No.
It shows that the President who promised Nigerians that he was going to give Nigerians a free, fair and credible election simply failed in his duty in giving Nigerians the election they deserved.
The hearings continue on Wednesday.
*One (1) small gold nugget
“On resumption of office, we know that the task was very huge.
If they had used a police baton on this man to suppress him, to an extent, it is still justifiable.
According to him, Mr Buhari is the special guest of honour and reviewing officer in his capacity as the Commander-in-Chief of Armed Forces of Nigeria.
Nigerian government sets dates for completion of Lagos-Ibadan, Abuja-Kano expressways
Addressing reporters on the matter, the leader of the protesters, Nkoyo Effiong, 60, said they had not been paid for four months, adding that it was tiring.
The court picked 27 September to deliver its judgement after the hearing.
The decision meeting, to be witnessed by government officials, would feature a consensus or voting where there is a plurality of choices.
AMCON made this known in a press statement on Monday.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the three political parties; Action Alliance (AA), Allied Peoples Movement (APM) and Action People’s Party (APP) had, in separate petitions, challenged the emergence of Mr Tinubu as president-elect.
“We are by this statement informing all arms of the Judiciary, including the tribunals and courts to ignore the ignoble antics of these compromised, suspended members of the party.
He said he called the petitioners’ lead counsel to ask why their team was not at the meeting, and he said they were not aware.
The Director General of the Budget Office, Ben Akabueze, says Nigeria needs a minimum of $100 billion annually to fix the infrastructural needs of the country.
The electoral commission declared the candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Tinubu, winner of the poll with over eight million votes against Mr Obi’s over six million votes.
“The National Social Investment Programme, which include the School-Feeding Programme, is the perhaps, the biggest fraud scheme in the whole of Africa,” HURIWA said.
I pray God rewards all of you enormously,” he said.
Some of the members of the coalition include Deputy Speaker Idris Wase, Majority Leader Alhassan Doguwa, Sada Soli, Aminu Jaji, Yusuf Gagdi, Miriam Onuoha and Muktar Betara.
Mr Oreagba warned every motoring public to always ensure that their vehicles are in good condition, particularly the brake before driving on Lagos roads.
https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSey- OAIR3UsduSWSIQsMkEn2b2fJ9cn1 Bmq12AdCZSU1x1HEg/viewform?usp=sf_link
Following the debate, the motion was taken with an amendment that INEC should embark on verification of the data in the register.
The Nigerian government has accused the outlawed Indigenous People of Biafra of being responsible for the deadly attacks in the South-east, while Governor Uzodinma of Imo State has repeatedly accused members of the opposition political parties, mainly the Peoples Democratic Party, of carrying out the attacks in Imo to frustrate his administration.
Court adjourns Peter Obi’s petition, Atiku’s live broadcast request
A statement by the NPF spokesperson, Olumuyiwa Adejobi, urged Nigerians and residents to utilise the portal effectively.
He is a known philanthropist who has helped in the development of his community in no small measure.
I have borrowed from your maturity.”
The novelist does not hesitate to regurgitate rumours and baseless innuendos about the President-elect but chose to be silent on widely publicized revelations in the Panama Papers of Peter Obi hiding humongous questionable wealth in notorious tax havens around the world.
The tool is also used to spoof an email address, send fake emails, or create a screenshot of a fake email.
“These results are evident as troops have rescued about 14 Chibok girls recently.
But the examination body said the mock examination was simply to confirm the readiness of the centres and that the hitches experienced were part of the learning process.
She was later referred from Ondo State to Marigold Hospital, Surulere from where she was transferred to IDH Yaba when she tested positive for the Lassa fever virus.
“The situation might be worst than what we had experienced early this year,’’ he said.
Mr Arase said so far, peace was being restored and trust being built between PSC and the Nigeria Police, adding that all the knotty issues would soon be amicably resolved.
The Nigerian parliament and ex-president Olusegun Obasanjo, among others, had pleaded for leniency for the Ekweremadus.
Binani’s suit sought to prevent INEC from reversing an illegal declaration by an official that she won the governorship election.
Daniel Oluwafeyiropo allegedly raped two church members in June 2020 in Ikota Villa Estate, Lekki, Lagos.
[PHOTO CREDIT: Twitter handle of Uzor Kalu]Messrs Tinubu and Kalu were former governors of Lagos and Abia states respectively, from 1999 to 2007 with a relationship spanning over 30 years.
Like Mr Tinubu, Governor Wike had also aspired for the president of the country but lost at the PDP primary to former vice president, Atiku Abubakar.
Others are Abdulkareem Asuku, chief of staff to Governor Bello and the state’s Accountant-General, Momoh Jibrin.
The person who nominated him is a member of Tinubu’s camp.
The Federal Executive Council (FEC) has approved N449.9 million for the engagement of consultants for the development of master plan for 17 airports in Nigeria.
FEC also approved contract for the development of external cost of infrastructure at the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) new training academy at N3.3 billion.
FCT, Kano, Bayelsa, nine other states get new police commissioners
The resurrection of Jesus Christ is everything for the Christian faith.
The highly contested 14 May presidential election in Turkey will likely lead to a run-off as neither of the two leading candidates has secured the requisite 50 per cent votes to emerge the winner.
The Hajj fare to be paid by Nigerian pilgrims this year depends on the locations they will be travelling from.
The Governor-elect of Enugu State, Peter Mbah, has expressed sadness over the murder of Dons Udeh, a former governorship aspirant of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) in the state in the just-concluded 2023 general elections.
Please, be my guest.
We are drawing closer to history to be made again for another woman, in myself, to be made the speaker of the House of Representatives.
This is to the extent that if care is not taken, whatever is envisaged to be dividends of democracy may get recklessly frittered away.
The Winter Olympics feature various sports such as ice hockey, figure skating, and alpine skiing.
He added that the defendants used the firearm for an illustration while preaching a sermon about faith in the church.
And I want all of you to know that the entire leadership team and I are dedicated to helping our colleagues during this transition and ensuring that they are treated with the care and respect they deserve.
It is a process we have commenced,” he said.
Also that all of these were necessary steps taken to successfully deal with climate crisis.
Other entities, involved with health insurance (under the supervision of the National Health Insurance Scheme), social works and economic empowerment at both the national and state levels, and private sector stakeholders such as Tony Elumelu Foundation and more have also leveraged the National Social Register to facilitate interventions.
Professor of Constitutional Law and Legislative Studies
The charge reads: “That you Muhammad Abdullahi Kulloma and Mbuta Criterion Nigeria Limited sometime in August, 2020 in Maiduguri, Borno State within the jurisdiction of this Honourable Court fraudulently induced one Abdulwahab Abba Aji to deliver to you the sum of Nineteen Million, Nine Hundred and Fifty Thousand Naira (N19,950,000.00) only via your Mbuta Criterion Nigeria Limited Company account No.
“We find his actions in this sad development as an act of desperation from a drowning man who is acting the script of his paymasters,” he said.
It predicted a cloudy atmosphere with intervals of sunshine over the North Central throughout the forecast period.
A five-member panel of the court led by Haruna Tsammani had on Monday dismissed a petition by the Action Alliance (AA) following the party’s withdrawal of its case against Mr Tinubu’s victory.
Mr Makinde promised to prioritise the welfare of workers through prompt payment of their salaries and other benefits.
The National Chairman of Action Alliance, Adekunle Omo-Aje, had said in January that Hamza Al-Mustapha, recognised by INEC was not the authentic presidential candidate of the party.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), reports that winners of the Regional Stage will progress to the National Finals where they will compete for a chance to win A Grand Prize of N1,000,000 Scholarship, among other prizes
Garba Shehu, the president’s spokesman, confirmed this in a statement on Tuesday in Abuja.
The Director, Defence Media Operations,.
“Over the years, I have worked cordially with the leaders of Commonwealth to achieve the values and principles of the Commonwealth which are shared by its members.
I know trucks to an extent, this product is not a product that will cost anything close to 1b nairaIt's neither Mercedes, Mack, Renault or Scania… I wonder why an unknown brand will be this expensive.But I still want to believe it's a typo error 😂😂
She alleged that the new lawmaker ignored the hawker who was groaning in pain, until Miss Thomas and other passers-by intervened to demand that he take the hawker to the hospital.
If this veto stands and you look back a decade from now, how should Nigeria remember you?
The clip showed that some of the gunmen were dressed in police uniform.
The Nigeria U-17 team, the Golden Eaglets have booked their place in the quarter-final stage of the ongoing U-17 Africa Cup of Nations in Algeria.
The parents insisted that the lack of an ambulance or first aiders at the venue of the sporting events contributed to the student’s death.
“Ship berthing will be easier; discharge of goods will be a lot easier; of course, there was the argument that why would the company that provides such services at Apapa Port and Lagos TinCan Island Port not do it.
But the Senate and House of Representatives elections results reflected the electoral supremacy of the APC in the elections.
“Ohanaeze has not even accepted his election and whatever he is doing is personal to him.
Mr Sadiq said he lost his grandfather in the fight.
In 2017, he featured hitmaker, Oritsefemi’ in a self-praise song titled ‘Taye Currency’.
Speaking on the meetings with LP members, Mr Gagdi said it is part of a strategy to get the buy-in of the people outside the APC and to build a consensus ahead of the inauguration of the National Assembly in June.
The APC equally argued that the petition was improperly constituted having failed to join Atiku Abubakar and PDP who were necessary parties to be affected by the reliefs sought
The APC candidate was illegally declared the governor-elect of the state by the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) following last Sunday’s supplementary election in the state.
“He is right now outside the country, and by the grace of God, when he comes back, we will go back to the drawing board and put our heads together again and see what we will get.
While APC lost Kano and Zamfara, the ruling party was able to take over Sokoto, the only PDP-controlled state in the region before the election.
“This would make the exchange rate market-determined and mitigate speculative pressures that fuel arbitrage conditions in the market.
She confronted the offender, who admitted what he had done at that stage but did not accept that his actions were wrong.”
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the caucus comprised members of different political parties from Nasarawa, Plateau, Benue, Kogi, Niger and Kwara states.
The final results were announced by the INEC Returning Officer in the state, Mohammed Mele.
The announcement is contained in a statement issued in Abuja on Thursday by the Chairman, Planning Sub-Committee on Media and Publicity, Ali Umoru.
*EFCC chair has questions to answer too
I was told they did not receive it, but I’m sure they’ve received it,” he said.
Mr Ortom expressed gratitude to Mr Buhari for “listening to the voice of reason” by directing the postponement of the census.
After Mr Odu concluded his evidence-in-chief, the judge adjourned the suit until 27 April for continuation of trial.
PREMIUM TIMES reported that the committee summoned Mr Malami and the Minister of Finance, Zainab Ahmed, but the ministers shunned the hearings.
In North-west, Mr Danmadami said the land and air components of Operation Hadarin Daji had sustained offensive operations on terrorist enclaves, camps and hideouts within Katsina, Kaduna, Sokoto and Zamfara States.
Mr Damagum demanded immediate declaration of the total results of the election.
“They are able to reproduce because they can resist the infection with their various resistance genes.”
Agaba is standing trial alongside Patrick Akpobolokemi, a former Director-General of NIMASA and Captain Warredi Enisuoh on an amended 22-count charge bordering on money laundering.
Several members of the COPSA group attended the declaration of Mr Wase and reaffirmed their commitment to the struggle against the imposition of a candidate on the lawmakers.
The film is a reminder of how a lie and desperate act can lead to several unforeseen events with profound aftermath.
He said the president’s place in history was an assured one.
Reuben Abati, the book reviewer, said Mr Malami gave a “detailed account of his stewardship and response to all the allegations and criticisms levelled against him.”
20 (Uniform Retirement Age for Judicial Officers), has met the provisions of Section 9(2) of the Constitution, for passage,” Mr Omo-Agege said.
“The new Registrar is expected to assume duty on 1 May 1,” the statement said.
However, this newspaper was requested to write a letter formally requesting the details.
The victim, who was age two when her mother abandoned her, told UK authorities how she came under serial rape by her father at least from 2011 when she was age 10 both in Nigeria and the UK.
A local court sentenced him and two others to life in jail in March this year in a kidnapping case.
The judge referred the case to the Probation Department for a pre-sentence investigation and report, which would guide his decision on the appropriate sentence to impose.
They have taken over swathes of northwest Nigeria, turning the region into the country’s bloodiest conflict zone.
Nigerian university appoints new registrar
“I charge every officer to emulate this character exhibited by the team, as good deeds pay off, the road is patient but does not forgive, ” he said.
But you are here to present yourself because you are qualified to run the House.
Ms Adesanmi, who was represented by the Communication Expert, National Council on Nutrition (NCN) Delivery Unit, Emmanuel Ohiomokhare, said this has been demonstrated by the current actions around the approval of the five-year plan of action, the inclusion of a chapter on food and nutrition in the NDP 2021-2025 and the approval of the establishment of nutrition departments across key MDAs.
He added that the sight of the colours created a feeling of pride in soldiers and ex-soldiers.
Davido also performed ‘Kante’ with Fave fromthe timeless album
The teenage girl never returned home on 22 June 1983 after a music lesson in Rome’s old town.
He said the troops within the period, neutralised five terrorists, arrested 10 and rescued three abducted civilians.
Given that Mr Tinubu was declared winner in Obio/Akpor, this newspaper’s review focused on the results of the votes scored by the APC and LP in the area.
The APP sued Mr Tinubu, APC and INEC as 1st to 3rd respondents respectively.
The CDD noted vote buying at polling units during the elections across the country.”
The suspected land grabbers escaped with the rifle of the slain officer.
Lateef Fagbemi, a SAN, who represents the APC and Akin Olujimi, another representing the vice president-elect Kashim Shettima and Mr Tinubu, both said they had responded to the preliminary questions raised by the court.
That is being extended to its distribution chain where a good number of trucks are set for conversion to gas from diesel, whose price jumped by almost threefold in 2022 alone.
‘‘To give effect to this approval, I inaugurated the National Steering Committee in September 2020 under the leadership of the Hon.
“The Prof. should be a father to all Nigerians irrespective of ethnicity, religion, party or social affiliations,” he said in a statement on Monday.
The president disclosed this while declaring the Nigeria International Energy Summit, (NIES) 2023, open at the presidential banquet hall in Abuja on Monday.
Other suspended members included Kennedy Njoku (Osisioma North), Chukwudi Apugo (Umuahia East) and Aaron Uzodike (Aba North).
But in a preliminary objection filed by the SSS, the security outfit urged the court to dismiss the suit for want of jurisdiction.
All the evacuees, over 5,000 people mainly students, are expected to be airlifted from Egypt to Nigeria.
“We also look forward to completing the merger of Union Bank of Nigeria and Titan Trust Bank, which began in 2022,” he added.
He noted that two visiting presidents from Niger Republic and Guinea Bissau had participated and enjoyed such interactions.
A total of 376 Nigerians fleeing the crisis in Sudan have arrived in Abuja in what is now the first batch of a government-assisted evacuation exercise.
He also emphasised the need for the government to identify various groups like the Ashraaf Islamic Foundation to spearhead the campaign against drug abuse in the country.
But on Monday, 15 May, I received a call that the Labour Party legal team had not turned up at the venue for the inspection of the documents,” Mahmoud told the court.
However, the sort of changes Mr Lamola proposes could have some traction on the continent, even though that means blunting the most important purpose of the ICC – to ensure that even heads of state don’t escape justice.
Meanwhile, to print the slips, JAMB asked candidates to visit its website “and click on “2023 UTME SLIP PRINTING” on the menu bar to know the time and venue of their examination.”
Informants are considered the top in the list of crises enablers that make the activities of these terrorists easier.
“Daddy, I need you to speak to your people in the South-West and Kwara, the Christians in the South-West and Kwara,” Mr Obi was heard saying in the leaked audio clip.
But the defendant’s lawyer, Femi Falana, prayed the court not to remand his client, stating that they were not aware of the remand application.
Their argument was that since outgoing President Muhammadu Buhari is from the north, his successor should come from the south.
NAN also reports that the event was attended by the State Commissioner of Police, Williams Adebowale, the State Chairman of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Ademola Babalola and a host of others.
FrieslandCampina WAMCO Nigeria, the manufacturer of noble milk brands like Peak and Three Crowns and the infant formula Friso, heftily relies on imports and foreign exchange for its operations.
Mr Dibang said the Assembly had passed the said law with the intention of frustrating the trial of the lawmakers and civil servant for alleged abuse of office and corruption.
In urging the court to strike down the provisions of the law, the plaintiff said the aforementioned sections would affect his livelihood and survival.”
The duty of this Court is to ensure that there is a level playing ground for all parties.
Mr Ugwa, who participated in the meeting, said Mr Iwuanyanwu was confirmed as the president-general through voice voting.
For instance, not a few Peace and Conflict Resolution Studies programmes in different universities in Africa and even beyond have had to rely on the University of Ibadan professors for take-off and sustenance.
The cleric appealed to the governor not to give room for the public insinuation that he pays more attention to Christians than Muslims in the state.
Mr Uzodinma, while endorsing Mr Iwuanyanwu, commended the council of elders for their choice.
Mr Obi said he met with Mr Mbang in Uyo last December and that the cleric told him that “God would use me to save Nigeria”.
“On this day, they were going for an assignment and ran into a heavy gridlock.
Sanwo-Olu orders demolition of 3 buildings on Banana Island
In an acceptance speech, Mr Uzodinma thanked the delegates and party faithful for the confidence reposed in him.
“This made it significantly higher than those of previous assemblies, which recorded 31 for the 4th Assembly, 98 for the 5th Assembly, 52 for the 6th Assembly, 60 for the 7th Assembly, and 74 for the 8th Assembly.
Convert that to Naira.
The lawyer, who informed the court that a lot of issues had come up between the last date of adjournment and today, begged for an order striking out the suit.
He added that Mr Owohunwa directed that disciplinary action be taken against the DPO and the operatives involved in the extortion.
The group has, however, asked residents of the South-east to stop observing the suspended Monday sit-at-home in the region.
“With heavy hearts but utmost gratitude to God for a life well spent, we announce the passing of our father, grandfather, uncle, friend and associate, Dr. Chinwoke Mbadinuju, a former governor of Anambra State and elder statesman,” he said in the statement.
Your webcam or recording devices can be activated remotely.
if the media—you people are always in plenary to watch our proceedings, so I believe also that the public and public opinion and public interest should be well captured in our sitting, motions and bills so that we are not making laws at our wims and caprices, bearing in mind the yearnings and aspirations of the Nigerian people as it touches them.
Although the ruling party is still mum on the zoning of the presiding offices, different aspirants have been interacting with members-elect.
These digressions can only be attributed to the handiwork of the devil, whose guile is ultimately weak indeed (Qur’an 4:47).
She said apart from Sunday, the school accommodates 250 candidates per batch for the examination which has been scheduled to hold in three batches per day until next week Monday.
Almost 1.5 million candidates took the computer-based test between 26 April and 2 May.
The petition stated that the discovery of fake employment letters was made by an official in the Ministry of Works and Housing who reported the presence of ghost workers in the ministry.
Since February 2021, northern regions of Nigeria have suffered repeated attacks on schools and religious institutions.
The World Bank Group has set ambitious goals to tackle the toughest development challenges facing developing countries, and the board said it is confident that Mr Banga is the right person to lead these efforts.
The poet also agreed with the Musician, Femi Kuti, who had expressed his dislike for the use of the word ‘Obidients’ to describe the followers of Mr Obi.
“From Tudun Wada where I live to where I go to work is far.
Messrs Njoku and Nwoga were, on 28 November 2022, arraigned on a 14-count criminal charge bordering on forgery, an offence which attracts imprisonment of a maximum of 14 years jail term if found guilty.
Securing collective backing is vital to avoid exploitation and achieve tangible results.
Mr Benjamin, therefore, said the result of the candidates who successfully took the mock examination on 30 March, had been released.
The BUA chairman also oversaw the Council’s support for various initiatives fostering collaboration between the brightest minds of both nations and nurturing the next generation of entrepreneurs.
First, like the journey to Jerusalem, joyous citizens filed out to their designated polling units.
As of 31 December 2022, up to two million Nigerian households extracted from the National Social Register had benefitted from direct cash transfers from the Government of Nigeria through its Conditional Cash Transfer programme, implemented by the National Cash Transfer Office of the Federal Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development.
Nigeria needs innovative technology to achieve sustainable feed production — Minister
Are you telling me somebody is going to bring out 360 million dollars?
This is also reflected in the outcome of the elections as results empirically validated this assertion.
Many countries including Nigeria have announced plans to evacuate their nationals from the troubled country.
Read the full statement by Mr Shehu below.
Mr Abang is the National legal adviser of APP.
According to the tweet, Mr Wike had in a letter dated 8 April, invited the president-elect to commission the Rumuola/Rumuokwuta flyover and the new Magistrate Courts Complex on 3 May and 4 May.
“When people get there and they have goods, they can pass through the scanners and we can be sure that there is nothing that can cause violence or inflicts danger or puts lives and property at stake,’’ he said.
President Muhammadu Buhari has said the fighting power of Nigeria’s military increased significantly under his administration.
The Plans lapsed in December 2020.
“The programme is structured through national projects and is at the same time a project of cross-border interoperability of the foundational identification systems of each of the participating countries, and mutual recognition of those credentials, allowing access to services therein.
Some of the people arrested were helping the police with useful information, Mr MacDon, a superintendent of police, said.
He said that just in the past five years, new vaccines for Ebola and malaria have been developed and licensed.
“History will not forget your important role in leading the fight for African freedom using money, arms and diplomacy in the African Union and the United Nations to secure independence for South Africa, Zimbabwe and Namibia for, without this, these nations would not have been free,” the envoy said.
Mr Muhammad further ruled that “the elements of defamation have been established by the prosecution.”
The people are not interested in ego fights, blame games, or buck-passing, the people of the region need hope — renewed hope — and this is an opportunity we cannot afford to miss.
He then adjourned the matter until 26 April for hearing of the motion and the submissions on the jurisdiction of the court.
She said the acting CP urged the traditional rulers to encourage the youths to imbibe peace and pursue grievances through legally approved channels rather than taking laws into their hands.
He urged members of the society who traversed the Seme corridor to take advantage of the trade facilitation effort of the Nigeria Customs Service and engage in legitimate business.
He further said although such was Ben-Gurion’s dream, today no fewer than 200 companies and start-ups in Israel engaged in renewable energy, energy efficiency and energy storage.
But if you have been in the system and followed our exercise over a period of time you will know that the first exams are always turbulent and then as we progress, we stabilise and we continue the exercise.”
It is easy to use and supports light, dim and dark themes.
Mr Tinubu said Mr Adebanjo has been consistent over the years in fighting for good governance and social justice in Nigeria.
With the new policy, the same excise rate for beer will be applied to the importation of wine.
This was contained in a statement signed by Ramhan Nansel, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) on Sunday in Lafia.
He said all appointments and re-appointments, which are in recognition of the appointees’ administrative and professional experience, are for two years.
Criminal syndicates and buyers from cities such as Yaoundé and Douala buy the animals and their products from these cells.
He called on Muslims across the country to use the occasion of Eid-el-Fitr to pray for the country.
If my people have trusted me this far and the leadership of the House has entrusted me with critical tasks like presiding over an ad hoc committee as chair, being a pioneer chairman of a very new committee which ordinarily takes a lot of experience to do and I have done it well.
This was a sequel to a motion moved by Chukwuka Utazi (PDP, Enugu North) during the plenary on Wednesday.
“If a policeman misbehaves, it is not enough to beat a policeman in uniform or to brutalise a policeman.”
In its judgement, the Appeal Court in November 2016, agreed with the prosecution and ordered a fresh trial of the defendants before another judge.
“Ekiti is a peaceful state and concerning the incidences of kidnapping, the situation in Ekiti is still better but we believe that you will make Ekiti to be kidnapping-free.
The PDP says its candidate, Atiku Abubakar, did not lose the 25 February presidential poll.
The people are hungry for development.
“We made it clear at our maiden meeting to give the position to the chairman of this caucus, Sen. Sani Musa.
Speaking earlier, Yinker Fisher, the CEO of Irris Smart Technology Ltd, stated that forex is the major impediment to the production of booklets.
While defending the budget, Mr Ogbuku explained that a total budget of N485.7 billion was proposed for the NDDC in 2021, N928.2 billion in 2022, and N876 billion in 2023.
While thanking God for his gift of longevity, the President-elect said Mr Adebanjo is one of the few remaining disciples of the late sage, Obafemi Awolowo.
“I became Chairman of Transcorp Hotel in 2007 with a shareholding of 5% and unknowingly Tony gradually started buying shares quietly,” he said.
“We believed in the potency of that petition and if the petition survives, it will alter the political calendar of Ogun State and bring disruption to the political system in the state.
“Be rest assured that our administration will not waiver in restoring the integrity and professionalism of the public service,” he said.
According to Abike Dabiri-Erewa, chairperson of the Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NiDCOM), no Nigerian is left in Khartoum.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Presidential aircraft conveying the Nigerian leader and some of his aides departed the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport Abuja at 9:10 a.m, on Monday, landed at Prince Mohammed Bin Abdullaziz International Airport Madinah at about 17:00 p.m. local time.
Reps probe missing 48 million barrels of crude oil, summons Malami, Ahmed, others
“The solution to these challenges will not come overnight, but as work in progress.
Both the army and RSF on Friday agreed to a ceasefire for the three-day Muslim holiday of Eid al-Fitr.
You publicly referred to me during one of our visits as your number one public critic with a huge smile.
Abductors who captured a former president of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Okey Wali, have released him after holding him in captivity for two weeks.
Mr Sirika says Nigeria air will be established and the incumbent government has no choice but to run with it.
Mr Abdullah also indicated his wish to visit Nigeria before President Buhari leaves office.
A Nigerian woman, Adetokunbo Abosede Brooks, is facing deportation from the United States following her inability to secure a permanent residence permit after residing in the country for 37 years.
Press freedom and human rights activists have described NBC’s sanctions as arbitrary actions which feed into the broader climate of information blackout and disregard for the rule of law by the President Muhammadu Buhari administration.
However, Mr Hundeyin, who shed more light on the matter, explained that the officers were on a time-sensitive assignment and had to alight to ease the traffic flow.
The context and content are what matters, and lies – where established – raise bothersome issues such as Integrity Deficiency.
Supreme Court writes INEC over judgement on APGA leadership crisis
Governor Charles Soludo of Anambra State has also commiserated with the family of the former governor over the loss.
A group, the Patriotic Peoples Forum (PPF), has asked the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to zone the speakership of the House of Representatives to the North-central geopolitical zone.
Mr Erhumwunse said the project was supporting 71 households with conditional cash transfers of N200,000 each, while 39 households would be supported with unconditional cash transfer of N60,000.
Mr Udeh was kidnapped on 22 April.
In the suit filed on 28 February, Adamawa, Akwa Ibom, Bayelsa, Delta, Edo, Taraba and Sokoto States sued the federal government at the Supreme Court, questioning INEC chairman, Mahmood Yakubu’s declaration of Mr Tinubu as president-elect.
But aside from the perfunctory condemnation of Ms Yakubu’s murder by President Muhammadu Buhari, no concrete legal action has been taken to bring her killers to justice.
While the Christian group commended the outgoing administration of President Muhammadu Buhari for securing the release of some of the abducted students, it emphasised that the incoming government should “take decisive actions to rescue and reunite these innocent girls with their families.”
Buhari also argued that the property was “reasonably suspected to have been acquired with proceeds of an unlawful activity.”
Mr Hassan told NAN that the accident occurred around 12.41 p.m. on Saturday in Abakpa community, Ogoja Local Government Area.
The president appreciates the contributions of Professor Haruna in the development of the engineering infrastructure sub-sector of the economy.
He solicited more support from residents for his government for the overall progress of the state.
The group specifically asked the party to micro-zone the position to Kwara State.
“As I speak with you, we have built nothing less than 125 new police stations, with adjoining standard barracks, that when you live in such a place, you will feel honoured.
Obasanjo, El-Rufai, Soludo in Kinshasha for Nigeria/ Congo Business Summit.
The magistrate subsequently ordered that the chief medical examiner of LASUTH should supply all the requested items to the independent forensic pathologist on the day of forensic consultation which should be carried out within Lagos State, the jurisdiction of the court.
All these go to show that it was a keenly contested election and one of the most credible in our history,” he stated.
During the unveiling of the books, former Zamfara State governor, Abdulaziz Yari, bought 250 copies of the book at N300 million.
A police officer attached to Moniya Divisional Police Headquarters in Ibadan was reportedly killed by hoodlums while chasing some suspected criminals n Ibadan.
Seven arrested as man beats police officer to death
You have my eternal gratitude.
In his reaction to the report on Wednesday, the governor ascribed the delay in the process to his insistence on due process being followed.
He added that the people seen at work are the ones to receive their pay.
Security: What Buhari has achieved in eight years – Presidency
“I personally spoke with him and he is in good spirits,” Mr Maikyau stated.
Both viruses continue to circulate, and both continue to kill,” Mr Ghebreyesus said.
They pleaded justification by insisting that their article was substantially true, and qualified privilege in that their reportage was done in public interest.
Gavi, a public–private global vaccine alliance with the goal of increasing access to immunisation in poor countries, has said the supply of the R21/Matrix-M vaccine should be able to meet its demand.
The 58-year-old actor, in an Instagram video, wittingly applauded Mr Obi’s resilience and how his ‘Obidient’ movement has changed the Nigerian elections narrative.
The judge held that it was the power of the court to grant a redress to persons who had well established acts that would amount to an infringement on their rights.
“While thanking you profusely for the opportunity of this engagement, Distinguished Senator, please accept my highest regards for your good self,” Mr Ndubeze said.
Buhari inaugurates Digital Innovation Council
“The candidate that will emerge will address the required ethno-religious balancing.
The EFCC said the defendants committed the offences between April 2010 and July 2011.
I wish Nigerian workers and the leadership of NLC and TUC Happy Workers’ Day!
Mr Akabueze said both the federal and subnational governments have not been able to meet the annual $100 billion target.
The estate of the ex-Western Region minister says his 30 per cent shares in the Israeli firm were mismanaged by directors and majority shareholders of the company.
“Chimamanda will be lucky if she does not have to prove this weighty allegation in court,” he said.
Court bars NBC from imposing fines on Nigeria’s broadcast stations
Deputy Senate President – North West – Senator Barau Jubrin (Kano).
Justice Ekwo held that lawyers ought to have counselled their clients in respect of such matters that are pending before the Supreme Court.
Governor David Nweze Umahi [PHOTO CREDIT: The Official Governor’s Facebook account]The governor said that the creations meant more income tax from both federal employees and state employees to the state government, improved welfare of the people, more funds to the economy and increased commercial activities in Ebonyi.
Over 400 people have been killed since the fighting began in Sudan, AlJazeera reports.
For the formal sector, it added that a first step would be to properly capture and tax high-net-worth individuals and large corporations.
The suspects, Ibrahim Adamu, 25, a naval personnel and Abdullahi Abdulwahab, 26, of the Correctional Service were paraded on Tuesday by the police in Edo State, Punch newspaper reported.
“This is for you to be a better person and true worshipper,” he said.
This year’s edition of the global event is coming after the world has heaved a sigh of relief from the rampaging coronavirus pandemic, which disrupted routine immunisation programmes across countries of the world.
U-17 AFCON: Nigeria’s Golden Eaglets defeat South Africa, qualify for quarter-final
Anyone can imagine that this attitude will only get worse.
NDDC Managing Director, Samuel Ogbuku, described the deal as the first harvest of the PPP approach.
According to Mr Kalu’s letter, the senator-elect was suffering from pneumonia and cardiac arrhythmia and was advised to seek medical treatment abroad.
Buhari inaugurates N9.5bn housing estate in Abuja
The virus, which has affected about 20 health workers, has killed 148 people between January and April, raising concerns about the current situation of the disease in Nigeria.
Thus, under Mr Buhari’s administration, Nigeria’s military only rose by a step.
In the north-central, the APC gained in Kwara, Benue, Nasarawa, and Niger states.
“I, Prof. Yusuf Sa’idu, the Returning Officer of the governorship election held on April 15, 2023, declare that Nasiru Idris of APC, having satisfied the requirements of the law and scored the highest number of votes, is hereby returned elected as Governor of Kebbi,” he added.
In a statement released by HEDA Chairman, Olanrewaju Suraju, the organization expressed deep concern over the rampant corruption and involvement of politically exposed persons across the broad spectrum of political officers in the country and which has infiltrated every sector of society and hindered the country’s development.
The 10th National Assembly will be inaugurated on 13 June and elections for Senate President, Speaker, Deputy Senate President and Deputy Speaker will hold after members have been inaugurated.
The former senators numbering about 72 made their position known at a press briefing in Abuja on Monday.
The forum, which is tagged: “National Animal Feed Summit,” is the second edition to be convened by the partners, with the Nigerian government represented by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (FMARD).
There is a massive security operation, with the Metropolitan Police putting 11,500 officers on duty in what it said would be its biggest ever single-day deployment.
The book reviewer said Mr Malami gave an detailed explanation on the controversies that surrounded the recovery of the infamous “Abacha loot, the MTN saga, the the Paris Club Refund, Twitter Ban” among other issues.
While the games were played on the same pitch albeit at different intervals, it produced different results for the home teams.
According to Babagana Kingibe, the Chairman, Organizing Committee for the event, other distinguished guests expected at the book presentation include Bola Tinubu, the president-elect, and Kashim Shettima, the vice president-elect.
The National Social Safety Nets Coordinating Unit (NASSCO) on Wednesday said the $800 million World Bank Credit was obtained to ease the suffering of poor and vulnerable Nigerians dealing with economic shocks.
This, it said, is more so since the last year has been full of falling stocks, wounded unicorns and rising interest rates for many of the world’s richest people.
He also noted that “I have never discussed or encouraged anyone to undermine the Nigerian state; I have never sponsored or preached any action against the Nigerian state.
"We feel highly unprotected."
The endorsement came just before the APC adopted the duo.
It is a testament to your popularity among your people and the confidence they have in you to deliver democracy dividends to them,” Yari said.
One of the returnees told Amnesty International: “The Nigerian government should not forget about the remaining 98 girls.
The Assistant Director in charge of Federal Highways in Lagos State, Olukorede Keisha, upon arrival and re-evaluation of the infrastructure, ordered a total shutdown of the portion.
The announcement follows the positive reports of crescent moon sighting in various locations in Nigeria, the monarch said
This is because Kiekie’s comic character salvaged the film.
“When you follow due process, things generally work out more efficiently.
“I am not just concerned about winning but about the sanity of the process,” he added.
The sacrifices and memories of these heroes and heroines will never be forgotten,” Mr Powerful said.
While making a case for the credibility of the 25 February election, Mr Keyamo said the upsets witnessed during the presidential election showed it was credible.
The stage play was produced by the Chairman of the university’s Culture and Ethics Committee, Seyi Kehinde, and directed by Felix Emoruwa.
People from the North and South are contesting for the Senate President.
Shortly after the accident, hoodlums in the area set the BRT ablaze.
After her second dismissal from MVS, Aristegui continued to broadcast on CNN en Español and founded a news outlet called Aristegui Noticias, where she continues to produce hard-hitting investigative coverage on Mexico’s governing elite.
A New Nigeria is Indeed Possible and God will help us.
He said the board also solicited the understanding of all as it delivered on its critical mandate.
His first son, Chetachi Mbadinuju, announced this in a statement made available to PREMIUM TIMES on Tuesday.
Violence is often the last gasp of victims who can’t breathe.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Mr Diri, who was the sole aspirant for the primary, polled 305 “yes” votes from the delegates to emerged as the party candidate.
She said the meeting was necessary due to the tension generated along 3rd Avenue at the Gwarinpa axis because of the squabble between some Hausa and Gbagyi youths on Saturday.
“This impacted negatively on health-seeking behaviours, and further weighed down on demand for services, especially at primary health care and community levels in the country,” he said.
The PPF supports one of the aspirants in the speakership race, Tunji Raheem, the lawmaker representing Ekiti/Oke-Ero/Irepodun/Isin federal Constituency of Kwara State.
“I wish to report on behalf of the Chairman of that Committee and the entire members, as at the end of the period given to undertake that assignment, no member of the minority caucus, better known as the greater majority, stepped forward to contest for the role of presiding officers.
“Without wasting the time of this court, it settles that the complainant is empowered to investigate and prosecute the three defendants on the two counts charge as stated in the information file, being federal offences and even though the alleged ones involved belong to the Ondo State government.”
The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Adewale Osifeso, confirmed the incident in a statement issued on Monday in Ibadan.
It alleged in counts 2 to 7 that Mr Ashinze; the Austrian, Mr Reinl, and Reinl’s Geonel Integrated Services Limited corruptly transferred various sums of money, totalling N1.84 billion to Mr Idiong, Mohammed, Sologic Integrated Services Limited, Vibrant Resource Limited and Helpline Organisation.
Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, disclosed this on Wednesday while briefing State House correspondents after the FEC meeting presided over by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo.
In a copious reference to Sections 131 (C) and 142 of the constitution, the petitioner said Mr Masari “withdrew his purported nomination thereby invalidating the nomination” of Mr Tinubu as APC’s presidential candidate.
Ekiti university suspends academic activities over students’ protest
* Three (3) Audemars Piguet watches
INEC claimed an unnamed candidate accused its officials of visiting the Adamawa State government house and meeting with one of the candidates in the election who gave them a list of "collation and returning officers" deployed for the election.
“As a collection of narratives, the book is a call to action for the restoration of balance in Nigeria’s Chibok community.
Court orders Tinubu, APC, others to file responses to opposition party’s applications
The judge held that in exercising his discretion on application for bail on allegations contained in a charge sheet punishable with imprisonment for a term exceeding three years, “the discretion of the court to grant bail will not be exercised in favour of the defendant where any of the conditions in Section 162 of the ACJA 2015 Is established.”
In another ground of appeal, Mr Kanu argued that the Court of Appeal erred in law when it heard and determined an application for a stay of execution of its judgment in a criminal suit.
The PSC spokesperson said even though the said Chijoike Okonkwo did not indicate his rank, the commission would welcome further details on the allegations.
They are waiting for clearance from the Sudanese end to cross to the Egyptian side.
“It has broadened my perspectives on many under-reported gender issues and the need to know laws related to such matters but most importantly, it has taught me to prioritise self-development,” she said.
President-elect, Bola Tinubu, on Wednesday, left Nigeria for Europe on a working visit.
In his speech, Mr Wase said he was opposed to any form of consensus without consultation with the members of the House.
A statement issued on Saturday by Lai Mohammed, Nigeria’s minister of Information and Culture, said the president postponed the exercise after meeting with some members of the Federal Executive Council and the Chairman of the National Population Commission at the Presidential Villa in Abuja on Friday.
“I do not know where I will start from.
Appearing remotely from Nigeria as a P&ID witness, Taiga did not contest Nigeria’s claim that she and her family received more than $200,000 from Quinn and Cahill between 2004 and 2019.
He died in London on Monday.
The office does this in exercise of the AGF’s constitutional power to take over and institute a nolle prosequi (terminate trials).
“As we are celebrating with our dear brothers in other states for their victory, we don’t want to create another problem for their victory by bringing issues that may create Constitutional problems and counter-productive to the development of the party.
Lassa fever is an acute viral hemorrhagic (excessive bleeding) illness that is transmitted to humans through contact with food or household items contaminated by infected rodents or contaminated persons.
Mr El-Rufai noted that being in government was not the only way to contribute to Nigeria’s development, saying even if he was not in government, he would remain committed to the progress of the country.
We are looking at the results and by the grace of God, very soon we will release the first batch of results,” he said.
He further disclosed that the council approved policy on HIV/AIDS to protect people living with the disease and new regulations on woodworking ecosystem.
The chairperson, Governing Board of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), Lauretta Onochie, has declared as “illegal, null and void,” a $15 billion railway line agreement signed between the commission and a United States-based company.
“They are part of the journey to a New Nigeria,” he said.
Over the next few days and weeks, we will be rolling out the first batch of training modules in our Digital Skills Academy.”
Consequently, the judge struck it out and commenced the trial of the defendants.
When contacted, Ibrahim Ahmad-Katsina, special adviser on Security to Governor Aminu Masari said only the security forces could comment on the matter.
Mr Ikpeazu stated this on Wednesday when he met with the leadership of Nzuko Umunna, a pan Igbo political organisation, according to a statement by his spokesperson, Onyebuchi Ememanka, on Thursday.
He recommended that the EFCC engage trained experts with attractive remuneration to facilitate the investigation of corruption cases, and the use of forensic accounting experts from professional accounting firms to serve as investigators and expert witnesses.
“I call on all concerned to ensure that more frontline health workers are recruited than others to ensure the substantial reduction in the shortage of health workers.”
According to Mr Erojikwe the two-day event would kick off on May 23 with exhibitions and a candlelight procession that will take place from UNN’s Arts Theatre to the Pavilion of Theatre and Film Studies for an evening of chants, poetry, and cocktails.
The board has rescheduled the tests for some candidates who encountered technical challenges.
The police narrate how the traditional ruler was killed.
A coherent continental strategy towards major external partners is needed, and leading African countries must champion such endeavours.
It is imperative that the protection and conservation of this important mammal in Central Africa is prioritised.
In the new video, she said what she had posted “was not what really happened.”
According to Abbah Moses, a resident of Gwagwalada, those who have a lot of money and are able to get the new notes earlier are hoarding them against the December deadline.
May for candidates who missed the examination for genuine reasons.
There was a clash between the PDP and APC in front of INEC office in Port Harcourt.
“And this was approved in the sum of N6.3 billion for 24 months.
I am not one.
will speak on “The Future of Africa and Nigeria’s Leadership Role,” where he is expected to identify the parameters of global and continental leadership and try to locate Nigeria in the African nexus of power and leadership.
It’s a web service used to generate fake stories in the newspaper.
In Abeokuta, He founded the Islamic Mission for Africa (IMA) in 1996 to promote Islam in its true light as a religion of peace, love and harmonious co-existence amongst all peoples – doing so through the means of education, socialisation, publicity and enlightenment.
APC similarly filed a suit marked FHC/ABJ/CS/449/2022 on 5 April 2022, urging the court to invoke Sections 177, 179 and 189 of the 1999 Constitution to declare the governorship seat of Sokoto State vacant on the account of defection by Mr Tambuwal to another party.
It has caught fire twice even during our administration.
Mr Maduabum said the event under the leadership of Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State, would feature a discussion on “Good Governance at the Sub-National level: Issues, Perspectives, Expectations and Outcomes.”
Windstorm kills six, injures others in Delta
This is contained in a statement by the Force Public Relations Officer, Olumuyiwa Adejobi, on Friday in Abuja.
PREMIUM TIMES could not confirm the exact number of Nigerian students in Sudan at the time of this report.
Your Excellency, some of us share the view that the holistic adoption of the U.S. version of pure presidentialism is one of the critical issues affecting our democracy negatively.
They said the one they have has expired,” Mr Ale said.
The embattled Resident Electoral Commissioner of INEC in the state, Hudu Ari, had illegally declared candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Aisha Dahiru popularly called Binani, as winner of the election.
“I have paid my dues; it is time to reward my stewardship to both the parliament and the nation.
PT: A woman once sat on the seat you are aspiring for, Patricia Etteh.
Others are Jessica Aldred, Special projects editor, China Dialogue; Aliou Ba, Senior oceans campaign manager, Greenpeace Africa; Bassirou Diarra, Oceans campaigner, Environmental Justice Foundation (EJF); Fatou Jeng, founder of Clean Earth Gambia and Climate Advisor to the UN Secretary-General; Solomon Elusoji, Digital content executive, Carbon Brief; Lulu Hui Ning, Editor-in-chief, Initium Media; and Yedan Li, Researcher, China Dialogue.
The senator-elect for Zamfara West, Abdulaziz Yari, says he will not withdraw from the race for the Senate presidency as the All Progressives Congress (APC) has not told him it has zoned the position to another part of the country.
Upholding the lower court’s decision, the Supreme Court held that the Court of Appeal “correctly found that the appellants failed to prove their case” against Mr Adeleke and his party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).
Some members of the House of Representatives have criticised the zoning formula of leadership for the 10th National Assembly proposed by governors of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC).
The officers later admitted that the two siblings were being held in the facility.
When contacted, the police spokesperson in Ogun State, Abimbola Oyeyemi, confirmed the incident to journalists in Abeokuta, saying that the state anti-kidnapping team was already after the kidnappers.
Another building collapse in Lagos, govt blames developer
“This extension is partly to give all holders of Cambridge A/Level Certificates, who were unable to register for the exercise on account of some issues associated with the verification of their certificates, another opportunity to do so, as well as accommodate others, who wish to register but were unable to do so within the stipulated time,” Mr Benjamin said.
In proving its case, the prosecution called three witnesses and tendered eight exhibits.
La Plata, Santiago del Estero, San Juan and Mendoza are the four host cities for the 24-nation championship.
However, the excitement was temporary as each action element happened.
He then supported the APC candidate, Mr Tinubu in the presidential election, saying since Mr Buhari is from the north, the next president of Nigeria, for the sake of fairness, should come from the south.
Mr Issah also urged the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, to set up a committee that will look into the handing over of the steel company to private companies.
Chimamanda at least makes one honest admission in a write up made up largely of rumours, hearsay, presumptuous conjectures and outright falsehood.
“Where there is inconclusive election there shall be no valid election until it is concluded.”
They have also visited president Muhammadu Buhari to allegedly persuade the president to facilitate the zoning to their region.
Gowon urges Nigerians to accept Supreme Court’s decision on election petitions
In ground 1, the government said the Court of Appeal erred in law by allegedly failing to consider the relevant provisions of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act (ACJA) 2015, a law that regulates criminal proceedings in federal courts.
Aid agencies must be able to safely move staff and replenish critical supplies,” he stressed.
“They have continued to do so because they cannot come to terms with the superlative performance of the governor and his government despite all they have done to frustrate his administration, including orchestrating insecurity,” he said of the opposition political party members.
To mitigate the most severe impacts of climate change, he said all countries must urgently move away from over-dependence on fossil fuel energy.
Interestingly, one of the victims of the 2015 rebellion, Mr Gbajabiamila, in 2019, guided against a repeat by appointing the leader of the 2015 rebellion, Abdulmummin Jibrin, as his campaign director.
Meanwhile, Mr Wangara said the commission has appointed Aliyu Muhammed as Deputy Chief Registrar II Shari’a Court of Appeal and Abdulrashid Alhassan as Chief Inspector Shari’a Court of Appeal.
The House of Representatives has asked the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to delete from the voters’ register data of voters that fail to vote in two election cycles.
While expressing his sympathy and condolences to the family of the legal luminary and founder of Crescent University Abeokuta, Mr Tinubu acknowledged Mr Ajibola’s important contributions to Nigeria’s political evolution and nation-building, the legal profession and international jurisprudence.
Abdalla Hamdok, former Prime Minister of Sudan, said: “There is blame on all sides, mistakes made on all sides, but I also think from crisis comes opportunity if our political space will learn the lesson that there is need to work together, we need to work on common denominator programmes.
Another user, @Rapidmax 01, said: “Same thing happened to me.
“Hundreds of people have been killed, while thousands that are fleeing the bloody civil war are reported stranded on the Sudan-Egypt border because of visa requirements demanded by Egypt,” the statement said.
He was a RUF member, they used to call him sergeant.
The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) has again rescheduled the computer-based Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examinations (UTME) for candidates who experienced hitches at their centres.
Nigeria’s Flying Eagles arrive in Buenos Aires ahead of U-20 World Cup
“Section 52 of the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Act allows INEC to seek the appointment of an independent counsel to probe allegations of electoral violence and other electoral offences that may have been committed by any state governors and/or their deputies.”
“The dismissed inspector was today (Tuesday) arraigned before Asaba Magistrate Court on remand proceedings for the murder of Onyeka Ibe.
She said the CP enjoined the residents to be security conscious and provide credible information to the police.
‘‘This administration has set three unprecedented records when it comes to ICT contributions to GDP.
"I know he (Tinubu) carries a Nigerian passport.
The President-elect left the country on 21 March for Paris on a vacation after a hectic campaign and election season amid speculations that he had travelled abroad to attend to his health.
“We use only the finest ingredients, sourced from reputable suppliers, and our production facilities are regularly inspected and audited to ensure that they meet the highest standards,” he said.
I assure all my colleagues, members-elect, and former members, we are not going to fight.
They don’t even know how to differentiate what is even the job of the governor, who is the executive, and that of the local government chairman from the legislator.
His patriotic inclinations, integrity and passion for service and advancement of humanity will continue to resonate after him.”
“I promise to work for you, promote and defend the constitution and the party, and foster a congenial and cordial relationship between the party, the executive and the judiciary.
The APC candidate said specifically that he was confident of his victory in the November governorship election.
“Its ability to maintain law and order and to protect lives and property must be held sacrosanct,’’ Mr Ani also quoted Mr Arase as saying.
He said Mr Fintiri polled a total of 430,861 votes to defeat Binani, who scored 398,788 votes.
The judge viewed it that there was a risk of fundamental unfairness to little Susan if the jury were not to hear this evidence and as a result be presented with an incomplete or partial picture of what she said happened.
EFCC, ICPC urge court to dismiss Keyamo’s suit seeking Atiku’s probe
Their conviction was the first under the Modern Slavery Act.
A stack of past dues reaching back to 2020, unable to be repaid as the company couldn’t source enough forex, triggered “an exceptional foreign currency expense of N14.1b,” it said in its earnings report.
FEC approves N15.3bn to install ICT components for 2023 Census
That mystery that government is shrouded in is what is allow the government to keep misbehaving.
We don’t know how many people the bandits have taken because aside those from Wanzamai, several people in the bush were also taken.
Moderated by another editor at TheCable, Lanre Olagunju, panelists had included the Founder and Director of BudgIT, a civic tech organisation, Seun Onigbinde; an official of Paradigm Initiative- a non-governmental organisation- Angela Onyegbuna, and the Executive Director of Project Enable Africa, Olusola Owonikoko.
The company’s PE ratio at the last trading session was 2.8x, while its EPS is N0.80.
The popularly known dancing Senator was accompanied by his aides and was greeted by fans who claimed to be from Osun state chanting ‘our governor’.
“This has been largely achieved as the exercise recorded the lowest reported cases of infractions but with equally emerging challenges on account of human negligence which led to some candidates not being able to sit the examination on the first day…,” Mr Benjamin added.
*Visiting nearest health facilities after noticing any of the signs and symptoms of Lassa fever as listed above, and avoiding self-medication.
Though I told him I did not need them, he convinced me to use them for rituals to better my life, and I agreed.
The North-east had three or 6.7 per cent of the cases, followed by the North-west, which recorded two attacks, accounting for 4.4 per cent.
On 18 April, the Federal High Court in Abuja struck down eight controversial sections of the Companies and Allied Matters Act (CAMA) 2020.
The Nigerian students are part of winners from 27 teams from eight countries including Bangladesh, Canada, Colombia, Kenya, Malawi, Tanzania, and the United States who participated in the competition.
At least 1,625 intending pilgrims to Mecca from Jigawa State have deposited about N4 billion to the National Hajj Commission (NAHCON) for the 2023 Hajj exercise.
The numbers are expected to increase after the supplementary elections held across the country on Saturday.
The Council of Europe, the Human Rights Convention and the court are all independent of the EU.
“If that is what touched your heart to challenge me to continue, I assure you that I will do my best not to betray this confidence you have reposed in me.
”Also, Plateau State COE; Federal COE, Yola; Federal COE, Zaria; Enugu State COE; Delta State COE, and Taiye Solarin COE are to get N1 billion each,” he said.
He said four people have been killed.
In 1947, Mr Idigbe returned to Nigeria and was called to the Nigerian Bar.
According to the letter, a copy of which was sent to PREMIUM TIMES, Mr Akapo was shot and killed by a “drunk police officer” in Badagry in 2019.
On issues of zoning the leadership position of the incoming 10th National Assembly, Mr Morka said the party was not in a hurry to arrive at such a decision.
“A declaration that the 7th Respondent cannot validly nominate any of the 1st to 6th Respondents as her Candidate for the Kogi State Governorship Election in the face of their failure as political appointees/public servants, to resign from service of the Kogi Government at the time of the primary election.
“The court below misdirected itself when it gave binding force to treaties, conventions and foreign judgements that are inconsistent with our Nigerian legislation,” the government’s filing said.
He called on labour leaders to consolidate on the mileage already covered by the federal government in the last eight years.
Mr Babafemi said the drugs were concealed in old hard drives meant for export to Dubai, United Arab Emirates.
Alleged Theft: Mob kills final year student in Nigerian university
“This Award is in recognition for your positive impact in the society.
Asked if JAMB can sustain the initiative, the coordinator explained that the number of visually-impaired candidates taking the UTME examination represents a small fraction of the total UTME candidates per year.
[PHOTO CREDIT: Francis Nwaze]Collins Oti, a representative of Air Peace airlines, which two aircraft landed at the airport, urged the state’s incoming administration to maximise the airport’s potentials.
A former minister, Ikra Bilbis, of the PDP, scored 102,866 votes to defeat Kabiru Marafa of the APC who polled 91,216 votes to win the Zamfara Central senatorial seat.
WMD is marked on April 25 every year to highlight global efforts to control malaria and celebrate the gains that have been made.
Pasuma, who has also crossed into acting, recently appeared in ‘Gangs of Lagos’.
You are qualified based on public and private sector experience.
IPOB is leading the agitation for an independent state of Biafra which it wants to be carved out from the South-east and some parts of South-south Nigeria.
The suspect, Joseph Egwuatu, was said to have raped the victim when he visited his brother’s residence and reportedly sent a relative, who was caring for the baby, to an errand.
Two Nigerians who work with the US embassy in the country were killed in the attack.
Mr Lawan spoke on Thursday when he received the 2020 to 2022 annual reports of the National Assembly Service Commission in Abuja.
2023: INEC cancels federal constituency rerun in Akwa Ibom
“The Electoral Act of 2022 gives an aggrieved party the right to go to the tribunal where there is a perceived injustice or illegality during the election.
The Nigerian government on Saturday justified its decision to spend $1.2 million to rent buses for the evacuation of Nigerians from Sudan.
Nigeria are also two-time Africa U-17 Cup of Nations champions having won their first title in 2001, with their most recent title at the 2007 edition.
Is it to seek external intervention in the ongoing process?
“So, even if the banks release the new notes and it is being hoarded by some person, there will not be enough in circulation.
Testimony was received from several witnesses, which supported the allegations,” the letter said.
Nigeria’s prolonged foreign exchange squeeze is forcing its biggest beer-maker to source raw materials at phenomenally high costs, Nigerian Breweries CEO Hans Essaadi told journalists in Lagos Wednesday.
Policies that will tackle our dwindling economy, mass unemployment, poverty, and challenges to our national security.
She said the phone which Ms Asadu left with was still connecting, two days after, but that she was neither picking up her calls nor returning them.
You need them to talk to the members in their states,” he said.
This came after Mr Nnamdi was arraigned on a cyberstalking charge.
“We wish to emphatically state that such speculation is unfounded and a ploy by some interests to cause panic among members of the public.
10:45am: Court resumes sitting.
Reps approve Buhari’s request to convert N23.7trn CBN loan to 40 years bond
He added that some of the implications of the high tariff on iron and steel include the increase in the cost of housing construction, and infrastructure projects.
Despite court order, APC expels former Gombe governor
PREMIUM TIMES observed that the process was more organised at the centre with a clean environment, while many canopies and chairs were provided for parents who accompanied their children and wards to the centre.
“We strongly believe we presented a good case before the Supreme Court but the Court thought otherwise and has given its verdict.
The applicant is also seeking an order granting him leave to apply for an order of mandamus compelling the defendant to furnish him with comprehensive and detailed information concerning Information on the funds received so far by the Commission towards the conduct of 2023 Census.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the N9.5 billion estate which is located on 18.5 hectares of land consists of 16 blocks of 3-bedroom flats in a block of 8 flats.
The association had in January issued an ultimatum to the government to resolve issues affecting its members, including the immediate implementation and payment of the new hazard allowance and arrears.
“This (latest) incident in a remote riverine community in Ogbaru Local Government Area is a reminder that patches of these criminal gangs can still unleash senseless and murderous acts,” he said.
Mentally unstable officers will also be discovered and taken off the streets or their appointments terminated.
Irrespective of the outcome of the court process, we have the obligation to strive for the peace and co-existence of all Nigerians.
“We also heard evidence from Mr Fagbewesa.
In Kebbi and Zamfara, the election is to hold in one senatorial district each –Kebbi North and Zamfara Central.
This newspaper gathered that during the 9 February ruling, the government obtained a consent judgement with the Private Estates International West Africa to demolish the properties in the estate.
They had submitted two issues in their final written address before the court.
“In all, two people were confirmed dead while the six others who sustained injuries in the accident are currently receiving treatment at the hospital,” the spokesperson said.
The incident is coming about two days after the police arraigned an officer who allegedly killed a man in Delta State over his refusal to give N100 bribe.
The victim, Onyeka Ibe, was inside a car with his wife when he was shot.
“I salute his courage over the years and the useful role he has played in ensuring that Nigeria remains a strong, united and prosperous country.
“They have been allegations of the attorney-general being involved also in the receipt of funds from outside the country without these funds being remitted into the federation account in line with the provisions of the constitution.
Mr Buhari appointed Mr Ararume as the non-executive chairman of the NNPC Limited for a five-year term in September 2021.
The Defence Headquarters says troops of Joint Task Force Operation Delta Safe and others have destroyed 50 illegal refining sites in the Niger Delta in the last two weeks.
Prosecutors say the alleged crimes were committed between June and August 2003, when Mr Massaquoi came to Liberia, having breached rules of the so called “UN safe house.” They alleged he and other RUF soldiers backed up Liberian government forces, who were countering an insurgency from the Liberians United for Reconciliation and Democracy.
However, Mr Owuru has baselessly insisted that he won the 2019 presidential election, contrary to court findings.
He said the gesture was aimed at “spurring officers to greatness while discharging their statutory duties with assurance that their welfare is of paramount importance to the leadership of the (Nigeria Police) Force.”
The farmers said the state government, which accused them of “encroachment and poaching”, has sent security operatives to chase them away from their farms.
This is because of the strong performance of opposition parties, more so the ‘third force’ candidates, that stopped a winning candidate from getting the plurality of the vote for the first time in the Fourth Republic (1999 – date).
It is left for the education and health ministries to fashion out what they can do.”
We want to point it out clearly to President Muhammadu Buhari that his position on the outcome of the said election was false, untrue, and it is not a true reflection of what played out during the election.
Mr Maikyau who took over as the 31st NBA president in August 2022, thanked members of the committees “for accepting this call to serve our noble association”.
He only pointed out that he had never been a religious or tribal bigot.
To discharge their constitutional mandate.
However, Nigeria became champions at the fourth CAF U17 Tournament in Seychelles in 2001, easily defeating Burkina Faso 3-0 in Victoria.
“He told another person who tried to intervene that I was so so selfish that I did nothing for him from the NPA, and never even gave him a birthday present!”
Zubairu Yewuti, a community leader in Kwali, said his younger brother and two of his elder brothers’ wives were kidnapped in his family house.
“It is not our responsibility to speak on that issue but I know that several calls have been made from the Presidency that there is nothing like an interim national government.
His judgments and opinions were laced with rich Yoruba proverbs.
“The environmental crises are piling up; climate, bio-diversity and extinction of species, plastic pollution that reaches every corner of the earth, growing water shortage, deterioration of food security for many in the world, continuous deforestation, intensifying desertification and more.
Resolving the issue of usurpation of court’s adjudicatory powers, the judge held, “This court will not allow the provision of any other statute to oust its jurisdiction conferred on it by the constitution.”
He noted that the sanctity of the parliament must be respected by all.
Mr Yusuf, who is the godson of Rabiu Kwankwaso, the national leader of the NNPP, scored over one million votes to defeat APC’s Nasiru Gawuna.
Dr Balkisu Saidu – ALTERNATE CHAIRMAN
He was also the High Commissioner of Nigeria to the United Kingdom from 1999 to 2002.”
72 per cent of all confirmed Lassa fever cases in 2023 were reported from Ondo, Edo, and Bauchi.
The president’s media aide, Garba Shehu, confirmed this in a statement in Abuja.
He said that prior to the concession, a test run was done.
“And this extreme politics should be de-emphasised in Nigeria, so we can move forward for a better Nigeria,” Mr Umahi said.
In the petition marked: CA/PEPC/03/2023 filed by Mr Obi and LP’s lead counsel, Livy Ozoukwu, they contended that Mr Tinubu “was not duly elected by majority of the lawful votes cast at the time of the election.”
Members of the various sub-committees include the deputy chief of staff; Gboyega Soyannwo, Abayomi Oluyomi, Gbenga Omotoso, Aramide Adeyoye, Olawale Musa, Sukanmi Oyegbola, Bayo Ogunlana and A. W. Olarinmoye.
The envoy in his lecture titled: “Save the planet with innovation; an opinion piece for delegations for Earth Day” warned against failure by governments at all levels to mitigate the impact of climate change.
“From what was being emitted in the name of news during the campaigns, some non-residents of the State, who read such stories, must have mistaken Akwa Ibom for a war zone,” Mr Eno, who was a candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party in the election, said on 14 April at a one-day seminar organised by a senior lawyer in the state, Samuel Ikpo for some journalists in Uyo.
Also, there is a need to stop funding revenue-generating agencies from the federal budget.
“You voted for continuity in functional public school system and payment of West African Examination Council’s and National Education Council’s examination fees for our children.
He said the essence of his quoting the data is to underscore that elections could be held without losing any life.
The lawyer prayed the court that other lawyers, litigants, and visitors, including journalists, who were in the court should not be allowed to be in the courtroom while the hearing lasted.
They also corroborated the testimonies of other defence witnesses that Mr Massaquoi did come to Liberia in the early 2000s, but only for peace purposes.
“He was a versatile personality and a great scholar,” said the president, adding that the deceased was “blessed with a wealth of scientific knowledge and extremely articulate as well as witty.”
“I am glad that the project is supporting the state’s efforts at enhancing academic, digital and life skills of our adolescents.
The government queried the appellate court’s decision on the basis that it refused to be “bound by established judicial precedent laid down by the Supreme Court on the mode of entry of defendant charged with the commission of an offence.”
Mr Izunaso was a member of the House of Representatives before moving to the Senate in 2007.
Mr Osagie said Mr Obaseki announced the dissolution during the weekly Executive Council meeting on Wednesday.
A delegation of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) has visited the family of a former president of the association Okey Wali, who was abducted a week ago in Rivers State.
“We have benefitted from the success of our school and we will not be arms akimbo and watch some faceless leaders illegally take an inch of the land of our school.
Mr Gbajabiamila said he has known and worked with all nine aspirants for many years.
But in her memoir entitled,” Ms Bala Usman said Mr Amaechi held personal grudges against her because she failed to dispense favours, and that some of these inspired his decision to remove her at all costs.
Mr Jibrin currently represents Kano North and chairs the committee on appropriation.
Mr Carson hailed President Muhammadu Buhari for his commitment in delivering a free and fair election for Nigeria.
The government then listed 17 properties in Abuja, Lagos, the U.S., Canada, Dubai, Switzerland, and the UK.
Photo Story: Gbajabiamila meets all speakership aspirants
“I want to also thank you so much for actually zoning the president of the Senate to South-south and to our brother from our neighbouring state who is also part of Cross River State.
Last year, she developed a diabetic problem – she was with one of her relatives in the US to treat the diabetes— but the diabetes never (went away).
“When we were seeking N10 billion to procure equipment for the airport, the speaker recalled the members who were on recess to approve the fund.
The selection, a product of analytical market watch, offers a guide to entering the market and taking strategic positions in hopes that equities will gain value with the passage of time, particularly in the short term.
The statement did not, however, highlight the necessary details of Mr Obi’s arrest and his subsequent release before returning to the country.
He will join other leaders to discuss the topic, “Africa’s Weight in the World, Highlighting the Continent’s Assets and Potentials.”
The appeal comes as a UK court is set to pronounce sentence on Mr Ekweremadu, his wife, Beatrice, and a Nigerian doctor, Obinna Obetta, on 5 May.
But a lawyer representing the Lagos State government and the Parks and Garages Administrators said they will study Tuesday’s judgment, and act accordingly.
Speaker of the Ebonyi House of Assembly, Francis Nwifuru thanked God for the project and Mr Umahi for his commitment towards actualising it.
Police, APC decline comments
“This thing also affected the primary, and so you found a situation where candidates emerged for the party in various constituencies without the stakeholders of the party in those areas knowing who they are.
“These were apparently meant to hoodwink their foreign backers and a section of the international media into uncritically reporting that they were coasting home to victory when they were indeed heading into the ravine of defeat,” he said.
But this did not go well with Atiku, who is challenging Mr Tinubu’s victory in court.
In his congratulatory letter, President Erdoğan, who described Asiwaju Tinubu as a brother, called for cooperation and partnership that would further the friendly relationship between Turkey and Nigeria.
In a related development, Mr Aniagwu said a 10-year-old boy was swept away in the Okotomi area of the Okpanam Community in Oshimili North Local Government Area.
The comment comes on the heels of Mr Obi’s denial of a treason allegation levelled against him by the federal government, a few days after a leaked audio where he described the 2023 presidential election as a ‘religious war.’
Mr Olupona has held many academic appointments both at home and abroad.
Buhari to unveil Nigerian Army’s new regimental colours
I appreciate the interventions of the Governor of Rivers State, His Excellency, Nyesom Wike; the Inspector General of Police; the Director General of the Department of State Services; the Commissioner of Police and the State Director of Service, Rivers State; together with all their officers and men, who worked tirelessly since the ugly incident took place.
Wednesday’s hearing could not go on due to SSS counsel, Idowu Awo’s request for more time to respond to a further affidavit in the case.
Rivers: Police commissioner orders arrest of officers who assaulted motorist
“The expansion of the National Social Register with additional 3 million households,’’ he said.
“For this reason, it is imperative to tackle malnutrition because winning the fight against it will have far-reaching consequences on the improvement of the general health of the people, and a great stride towards ending poverty in our country.”
Even the Force PRO who personally came to Anambra for this case hasn’t told us anything,” he said.
None of the sources could say for certain when the challenges would be resolved and when the Nigerians would return to their country.
Nigeria’s most recent elections were held on 25 February and 18 March for federal and state elections respectively.
As the day drew to a close, a cloud of doubt spread across the country as the excitement and high expectations vaporised.
The lawmakers-elect, drawn from the seven minority parties, in a statement on Monday, said they would use their numerical strength to produce the presiding officers of the lower House.
The President extols the philanthropist for his courage, humility and dedication to nation-building, always placing the interest of the nation first, and welfare of the people, by ensuring that all his ventures and investments uphold human values of empathy, appreciation, trust and respect.
Get me a mic to sing the praises of Mike!
He said the party took the decision following the recommendations of a panel set up to probe him for alleged anti-party activities.
The chairman also said the southern part of the country has six different costs for hajj.
“The presence of sildenafil and tadalafil in PrimeZen Black 6000mg capsules renders them unapproved drugs for which safety and efficacy have not been established and, therefore, subject to recall.
Intimidation and threats are merely the obverse complements of material inducement.
Budget deficits, low revenue responsible for rising debt – DMO
He described the project idea as a paradigm shift from the “quick-win project,” which he said the “NDDC is known for.”
The embassy cautioned students that any of them that is transferred to Egyptian government universities would not be eligible for an Egyptian Government Scholarship.
INEC denies refusing to obey court judgement on APGA crisis
Yakubu Chonoko Maikyau, OON, SAN
I don’t want to think he will belittle his whole career and limit it to a Hadiza book.
FCMB Group tops this week’s pick for currently trading well below its intrinsic value, brightening its chances of strong price appreciation in the future.
This is not the Canadian or American culture we had imbibed and which has now positively and progressively shaped our worldviews and socio-political and other forms of engagements.
The event was attended by the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila and Governors Abubakar Badaru (Jigawa), David Umahi (Ebonyi), AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq (Kwara), Seyi Makinde (Oyo) and Hope Uzodinma (Imo).
Thereafter, the court, which held its inaugural sitting Monday, adjourned Mr Obi’s petition until Wednesday, 10 May.
The combination of external shocks, double standards and self-interest demonstrated by some partners bolsters the narrative that Africa must pursue its own strategic autonomy.
This is insane.”
Meanwhile, the State Sector Commander of FRSC, Ahmed Umar, sympathised with the families of the victims.
Mr Shehu said, “Perhaps if the disgraced governor had been more concerned with doing his job than politicising the tragedies so frequently taking place under his watch, the situation in Benue might be very different, like in any of its neighbours – Taraba, Nasarawa, the FCT – which all enjoy peace.”
But at N1.2 billion per truck, are we going after hellfire or fire on the mountain?
Those found culpable will be charged in court while those not connected to the crisis will be let go, the police spokesperson in Akwa Ibom, Odiko MacDon, said in a statement on Wednesday.
What is going to happen that day, it is going to happen based on the instructions of the constitution and not for anyone.
“Troops also recovered 14 AK47 rifles, two AK49 rifles, one AK56 rifle, one GPMG, one RPG tube, one PK MG and two RPG bombs.
”And in this respect, talking of the Apo Six, taking into consideration, the commission adjudged the government as being in breach of the human rights of certain individuals popularly referred to as Apo Six, which unfortunate incidents predate the government of Buhari.
He stated that the kidnappers also abducted one Hassan Gusasse.
How will you ensure the passage of these bills and other similar ones in the future?
The report highlighted the success of Nigerian migrants in the US, where they have seen a 1,500% increase in their earnings.
Mr Ohadoma did not possess any weapon during the incident which happened in Ihiagwa, Owerri West Local Government Area of Imo State.
Multiple calls and text messages sent to his telephone number were not responded to.
The land — belonging to Obeagu Awkunanaw and some families in Amechi Uwani, a neigbouring community, was reportedly acquired by Private Estates International West Africa, an estate developer, during the administration of a former governor of the state, Sullivan Chime.
The newspaper also added that it is targeted at safeguarding PWDs from fake news and misinformation “through the fact check arm of TheCable, Cable Check.”
Mr Areghan explained that the platform is a service on the Request Management System/Chatbot on its official website which he noted allows students to confirm data uploaded for them by schools “in order to make necessary corrections (if any) on such data.”
Qosim Suleiman is a reporter at Premium Times in partnership with Report for the World, which matches local newsrooms with talented emerging journalists to report on under-covered issues around the globe.
Mr Damagum, who congratulated the governors elected on the platform of the party, urged them to emulate the outstanding performance that the PDP governors were known for.
“They allow them to raise fund, some allow them to lobby their Congressmen and lawmakers and whatever fund they realise they use it to destabilise the country,” the minister said.
The PDP governors will also send off past chairmen of the governors' forum.
“Our four airports, for now, are being approved and designated as free zones.
Africa is on its familiar route again.
People from the North are contesting for Speaker.
You don’t have to be a lawyer to be a legislator.
“NEPZA is willing, ready and capable of giving you all the necessary support,” Mr Adesugba, a professor, said.
On his ambition for the Senate Presidency, Mr Kalu said that he remained the best candidate among other contenders to partner with Mr Tinubu in the overall interest of the country.
That is all I can tell you,” Mr Abimbola said.
Mr Oshodi adjourned the case until 9 May for trial.
Nigerians want Nigeria to work.That’s it.
He added that he is not “afraid of the lies and propaganda” against his person.
“Between 82 per cent and 99 per cent of these were funded by new borrowing, which ranged from N1.46 trillion in 2015 to N8.80 trillion in 2023.
Labour Party’s Peter Obi got a total of 6,101,533 votes while Rabiu Kwankwaso of the NNPP came fourth with 1,496,687 votes.
It is clear and evident that Nigeria needs a governance that will bring women on board to unite our over fragmented interests.
At the independence anniversary celebration, President Conde gave Tinubu the honour and privilege of a president, in appreciation of what he did for him during his reelection bid and towards economic development of Guinea.”
This company is a Management and Export Consulting Firm without known notable Directors.
The lawyer, therefore, prayed the court to void the affected sections, having infringed on his fundamental human rights.
The Tuesday event will also feature the presentation and an exposition on the policy implications of Dr. Usman’s book titled “Economic Diversification in Nigeria: The Politics of Building a Post-Oil Economy.”
While citizens seek outlets to express their grievances, they often find that the doors of opportunity to express their dreams are blocked.
Saturday’s House of Representatives supplementary election in Port Harcourt Federal Constituency in Rivers has been characterised by low turnout of voters, the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports.
It explained that the trial judge, Binta Nyako, granted Mr Kanu bail on 25 April 2017, but on the following adjourned date of 11 and 12 July 2017, the IPOB leader was absent from court “having jumped bail and absconded outside the country.”
Japan has also said it has begun the “necessary preparations” for evacuations of its citizens including embassy staff from Sudan, government spokesman Hirokazu Matsuno said.
“So this shows that our president-elect is fit and fully ready for the Job of leading Nigerians just like I said.
She said it was curious that, unlike results of the presidential election, results of the National Assembly elections, which were held on the same time, were “easily” uploaded on INEC’s portal in real time.
Mr Akans said that his party won the election and was not afraid of meeting anyone challenging the outcome.
These resolutions were reached sequel to the consideration of a motion titled: “Current Issues on airlines blocked funds in Nigeria” sponsored by Sen. Biodun Olujimi (PDP-Ekiti) on Wednesday at plenary.”
There are those still aggrieved with the alleged high headedness of Mr Oshiomhole during his tenure as National Chairman of the APC, and Mr Akpabio is facing investigation for corruption but has not been charged with any offence.
She said that Bebex immediately called some police officers while shouting that it would only cost him some money.
Gunmen abduct NPC commissioner, aides in Rivers
Mr Fagbemi said he would not object to official documents tendered from INEC during the hearing of the substantive petition.
Yet, we thank you for your mercy upon us.
Speaking at his residence in the State House where he received the Progressive Governors Forum led by its Chairman, Governor Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi State, the President said: “They were already telling their foreign backers that they would defeat the APC.
UCL: Man City crush Real Madrid, qualify for final in style
In the 25 February presidential election, the APC presidential candidate, Bola Tinubu, got his highest number of votes from the North-west region.
Mr Ologunagba also commended Nigerian workers for their patriotism in serving the country.
The demand for Primary Health Care (PHC) services in Nigeria remains below the desired level largely due to social, cultural, and geographical barriers, said the Executive Director of the National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA), Faisal Shuaib.
His lawyer would later reveal that he had gone to make some complaints to the police about his mother.
He was arraigned in court on Tuesday for assaulting a police officer, an offence contrary to Section 356 of the Nigerian Criminal Code Act.
Four other political parties with their presidential candidates have also filed their petitions against the outcome of the election.
A magistrate’s court in Ilorin, Kwara State, on 7 February, convicted Gidado Shuaib and Alfred Olufemi for publishing a defamatory article against Hillcrest Agro-Allied Industries Limited.
This was after he completed his law degree programme at Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria, between 1972 and 1982.
He lamented that some bacteria are already “resistant” to common antibiotics and that it is often harder and more expensive to treat the infection when it happens.
It lacks merit and indeed substance.
The ARD president said the body frowns at the deliberate refusal by the government to pay the salary arrears of 2014, 2015 and 2016 to its members as well as the arrears of the consequential adjustments of minimum wage.
Anambra Governor, Charles Soludo, said the N30,000 national minimum wage for Nigerian workers is grossly insufficient to sustain the average worker and his family.
These concerns have increased intensely in the last few days as immense pressure has been mounted directly on Mr. Obi to leave the country, no doubt from sources allied to the All-Progressive Congress (APC) and its agents in the security services.
Our parents cannot take responsibility for our studies even in Nigeria.
It is not clear if such alliance will be replicated in the 10th National Assembly if the APC does not have a clear majority in the House after the 15 April supplementary elections.
“I have decided to support you in providing vehicles for easy movement in the zone and also provision of housing for officers and the 100 hectares of land .
IPI Nigeria demands that the incoming government commits to the total implementation of the FOI Act.
“It is the same stage I was when my mother left my father that my wife left my children for me and went away.
But Mr Ayangbesan said he did not participate in the killing of the victim but only bought the part of the victim’s body that he needed for fetish ritual.
The group also urged the Minister of Petroleum, President Muhammadu Buhari and leadership of NNPC Limited to prevail on SPDC to have a rethink and reciprocate the peaceful disposition of the host communities.
Mr Oyedepo had also asked the court to order the forfeiture of N400 million, which he said was also reasonably suspected to have been derived from unlawful activities.
“I told him he was supposed to apologise and not to command his people to slap me.
Sudan Crisis: 132 Nigerians to arrive Abuja
The institution also stated that fixing fingernails, eyelashes, and other artificial materials on the body will no longer be allowed in the university.
Kano ALGON, NNPP banter over alleged plan to use council funds to buy votes during elections
“The case in hand is a scheduled review of our logistics contracting process that has been in place for years.
Sepat Energy said Thursday that the Nigerian government, through the Nigerian Immigration Service, has called off the legal action launched against the oil driller, some of its directors and officers.
PREMIUM TIMES observed that the arrest of the suspects, their arraignment at the court, and their movement to the prison happened in less than 24 hours.
Also, from 2007 to 2011, the South-west produced Rt.
The VP observed that “we knew from the on-set that attempting to effect some of the most comprehensive procedural and administrative reforms in our history was going to require time, strong political will and insistence on following the plan.
A former Managing Director of the Nigerian Ports Authority, Hadiza Bala Usman, has released a new book detailing events and controversies during her tenure in office.
The actors in the video were not real people.
It’s unfortunate that only one part of the political spectrum is politicising ethnicity.
“Anambra has the highest burden of TB drug resistance cases and childhood TB contribution in the South-East and Nigeria.
“It is inconceivable to assume that the testimonies of the respondents’ witnesses had any probative value,” the appellate court held.
However, committees of the House routinely get financial and logistics support from MDAs they oversee in the course of their official duties.
The evacuees had been unable to get into Egypt owing to logistics and diplomatic issues since last Thursday.
He later joined Daily Times as a sub-editor in 1955, at the age of 20, before moving on to serve as Assistant District Manager at Rediffusion Services, Ibadan, in 1957.
I, Prof. Benjamin Olley, hereby announce that Abass Agboworin of PDP, having satisfied the requirements of the law, is hereby declare the winner of the supplementary election into Ibadan North- East/South-East Federal Constituency of Oyo state,” Mr Olley said.
“The 1st petitioner herein resigned his membership of the PDP on Thursday 26th May, 2022 and joined the Labour Party the following day being 27th May, 2022.
But when they got to the police station, the four sisters and Mr Kalu were all kept behind a counter and later thrown into a police cell, before they were hastily charged the following day before a magistrate in Owerri, and then remanded in the prison.
Now, either by design or by mistake, those provisions of CAMA that we applied to the court for it to declare them null and void actually ran in the face of the fundamental human rights of Nigerians.
Mr Ani added that the commission had directed the police to unravel the identity of the said Chijioke Okonkwo for appropriate interrogation.
Amid speculations that the President-elect, Bola Tinubu, has a Guinean passport, the Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, says the 1999 Constitution does not bar Nigerians with dual citizenship from becoming president of Nigeria.
“We assure you that the command shall continue to be resilient in its determination to ensure criminal elements are denied the space to carry out their unlawful activities in the state,” the commissioner said.
“It reminds us of the ugly past where workers were dehumanised and their rights and freedom denied them,” he said.
‘‘Council also on March 15, 2023, approved the Nigeria Agenda 2050 that we are launching today,’’ he said.
SB Morgen’s report said Nigeria is facing a persistent food insecurity crisis that is continually aggravated by insecurity, poor policies, adverse weather conditions, and international events such as the recent Russia-Ukraine war.
The Minister of Labour and Employment, Chris Ngige, gave the warning on Tuesday in Abuja, shortly after receiving a letter of notification from the NARD executive on the planned strike.
The Pentagon has called the leak a “deliberate, criminal act.”
“Last year, we released intervention in 20 institutions and the hostels have been completed.
It features some of the best players in the world.
“You will have that self-esteem that you are living in a very decent place.
Mr Adeyemi narrated that while waiting at his constituency to participate in the primary election, he was shocked to learn that the exercise had taken place, with Mr Usman-Ododo declared as winner.
The PDP agent in Unit 3 Ward 5, Micha Kalio, blamed the low turnout on partly the outcome of the February 25 and March 18 elections.
Respondents’ lawyers – Abubakar Mahmoud (INEC), Wole Olanipekun (Mr Tinubu’s lawyer), Lateef Fagbemi (APC), all Senior Advocates of Nigeria (SANs), confirmed Mr Ozoukwu’s submissions before the court.
Katsina, like Zamfara, in Nigeria’s north-west, has been a hotbed of terrorist activities which have claimed many lives and displaced several others.
He added that the new NNPC is on course to becoming the biggest, most capitalised and most profitable company in the whole of Africa.
He said: “We, therefore call on President Muhammadu Buhari to call his party, the APC to order and also refrain them from using unorthodox means to suffocate political structures in Nigeria.”
The petitioners are seeking the nullification of the 25 February presidential poll.
Mr Kayoda described the exercise as peaceful, rancour-free and hitch-free with the support of the governor.
While we call on all concerned Nigerians and the International Community to caution APC and the APC Led-government to stop their nasty attacks, Mr Peter Obi’s focus and commitment to lawfully and peacefully retrieve our mandate to secure and unite our Nation, take Nigeria from consumption to production, pull millions of Nigerians out of multidimensional poverty especially in the North and jumpstart prosperity through agricultural, industrial and technological revolution remains unchanged.
The applicant asks the court to postpone the census because the NPC has not made adequate preparation and adequate publicity towards the conduct of a credible, effective and constitutional census in the country.
I have not seen where it is that in our rule, the deputy speaker from 1999 till now or a speaker must be a lawyer.
The mob suspected the victim was acting a ritual script, after spotting what were allegedly considered fetish items in his car.
The president acknowledged that as Nigeria aims to become a global talent factory through the implementation of the Startup Act 2022, its startup ecosystem still faces significant challenges, such as access to funding, support infrastructure, and skilled talent.
Some eligible voters, who spoke to NAN, cited indifference among other things, as reason for their lack of interest in the process.
“For the very first time, I got to know the young man that is running for the state House of Assembly election (in my state constituency).
Majority Leader of the House of Representatives, Alhassan Doguwa (APC), member-elect for Doguwa/Tudun Wada Federal Constituency in Kano State, described his victory as exceptional.
“An integral part of the constitutional duty of the court to hold proceedings in public is a discretion to allow public access to proceedings either physically or by electronic means.
But we will take it up in parliament to find out why they didn’t open the borders in time, especially in a period of crisis like this.
The National Coordinator of SINET, Ibrahim Issah, made the call in a communique issued at the end of its meeting in Jos, Plateau State on Monday.
The Public Relations Officer of the Kebbi Police Command (PPRO), Nafi’u Abubakar, also confirmed the development to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Saturday in Birnin Kebbi.
President Buhari received Governors Mai Mala Buni of Yobe, Babagana Zulum of Borno and the incoming Governor of Katsina State, Dikko Radda.
Mr Oshioma, however, added that the struck down sections of the law could only regain their validity if restored by courts of superior jurisdiction.
2023 Polls: Reps reject calls for interim government, warn politicians against “provocative statements”
Others who delivered goodwill messages at the event were the CMDs of hospitals that participated during the mission and representatives of the beneficiaries, Murtala Dodo and Ireti Ojo.
In the case filed on 31 August 2021, Mr Ekpenyong contended that eight sections of CAMA infringed on fundamental rights of Nigerians as they were inconsistent with the Nigerian constitution.
His professional international exposure has taken him to the USA, Australia and India, where he acquired training in Library Automation; and Nairobi, Kenya for E-learning and Collaborative Tools Training,” the statement said.
Most Americans and even a majority of Democrats in recent surveys according to CNN have shown little enthusiasm for another Biden run.
The former governor recently announced his withdrawal from the Imo State governorship race under the PDP.
A period of just shy of three years had elapsed between the flight into the UK and the hearing of the appeal and therefore an element of lost memory is to be expected.
The statement added that top party leaders in the state have been invited by the IGP on trumped-up charges.
He said in the press statement on Thursday that some groups have been parading themselves as officers of Corps without the approval of the president.
Mr Oyebanji, who was conducted around the school for an on-the-spot- assessment of facilities by the principal, Amogbonjaye Felicia, said he would give the school a facelift to make its environment more friendly, accommodating and conducive for learning.
“When I read my book ‘The burden of service’, a lot of people thought I was audacious but I think you are more audacious than I was.
For example, a whole market was burnt.
Mr Shehu pledged to contribute to the enactment of laws that would enhance Nigeria’s development.
The bill also seeks to end the discrimination that stakeholders in the polytechnics have, which for long they sought an end to.
“The evacuation is being done in batches to ensure the safety of all Nigerians.
“The story of producers of spirits and alcoholic beverages is not different from that of the domestic wine producers,” he said.
P&ID’s treatment of witnesses also came under scrutiny.
The police spokesperson in Enugu State, Daniel Ndukwe, disclosed this in a statement on Monday.
Another user, Elkanah Garang, wrote: “Commendable!
In 2015, Aristegui was fired from the radio broadcaster MVS shortly after she and her team reported on a dubious real-estate deal by the wife of then-President Enrique Peña Nieto and after she helped launch MexicoLeaks, a Wikileaks-style platform designed to help expose corruption.
The Christian group also noted that protecting schools from terrorism will encourage education in the Northern region and empower the minds of the children and youths to reject the falsehoods that foster terrorism and “will naturally weaken and eventually defeat Boko Haram and other forms of terror in our land.”
He said that the troops recovered 13 AK47 rifles, 16 AK47 magazines, 1,531 rounds of 7.62mm special, 886 rounds of 7.62mm NATO (belted) ammo, 139 rounds of 7.62mm special (tracer) ammo, and 30 rounds of empty cases of 7.62mm special.
In her remarks, the state’s deputy governor, Monisade Afuye, commended the state government for partnering with the World Bank for the full implementation of AGILE scheme to boost girl-child’s access to education.
Mr Betara in his speech expressed willingness to work with the other aspirants in the interest of the parliament.
Actor Charles Awurum calls Peter Obi out, threatens to sue him
The Federal High Court in Lagos has adjourned to Thursday and Friday hearing in the 11-year-old trial of a former speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Adeyemi Ikuforiji.
The fellowship, worth $160,000 over two years, will see Mr Oriola conduct research and social innovation on “Beyond victimisation: BIPOC officials in the Canadian criminal justice system.”
It said: “The 1st petitioner (Obi) was a member of PDP until May 24, 2022.
He added that the trapdoor opens when faeces are dropped on the door thereby allowing the faeces to go into the pit and closes when no load is placed on it.”
He also charged motorists to always observe 40 minutes rest after every four hours drive, to ward off fatigue and drowsiness.
Before last Saturday’s poll, the main opposition party had 33 senators-elect.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the court had on 10 May adjourned until today (Wednesday) based on agreement among the parties to the suit.
In his petition, Atiku listed 12 alleged malpractices by INEC that helped Bola Tinubu win the polls.
But Charly boy, in a post on his Twitter page, went after Mr Soyinka, saying, “The kin respect I had for dis man, was almost the kind of respect I had for my stainless father, The Socrates of the Supreme Court.
His fresh abduction appears to be the first case involving a high-profile person in the re-emerging wave of kidnapping that reduced remarkably around the country during the nationwide cash crunch earlier in the year.
Buses primed to evacuate the stranded students got stuck in the middle of the Sahara desert.
Mr Obi was one of the 18 candidates in Nigeria’s recent presidential election, in which he came third.
“What we are trying to avoid is a situation whereby the number one citizen, number two citizen, the number three citizen and the number four citizen are all of the same faith.
Mrs Ogunbiyi called for support for specialised training of staff of the commission on investigation, communication skills, ICT and administrative procedures of the NPF.
Gbajabiamila, Wase mourn Taraba Rep-elect
Mr Kawu noted that the House must undertake the investigation to “complement” the effort of the federal government in the fight against corruption.
Senior lawmakers of Nigeria’s ruling party have vowed to challenge their party’s choice for the position of Speaker of the House of Representatives.
He added that the pandemic, insecurity, climate change and post-harvest losses, among others, have significantly disrupted already fragile value chains across the country, including people’s ability to produce, process, and distribute food.
Mr Sulaiman urged the legislators to engage regularly and constructively with the public, civil society, the media, Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) and other stakeholders for better legislation.
He is the first former president in the history of the US to face criminal charges.
“As we all know, all the systems that have been used today in security, need effective networks, including control systems, computer systems, communication systems, intelligence systems, information systems, surveillance systems, recognising systems, all of them.
The Senate will now resume plenary on 2 May instead of 25 April as announced earlier.
Muyiwa Adejobi, the Force spokesperson said that the singer is being interrogated at the SCID.
The Nigerian leader used the opportunity to bid farewell to his colleagues, expressing joy at shared aspirations and values within the period.
“It is important that laid down processes are adhered to avoid a breakdown of law and order in a heightened political environment.
He did not disclose his exact location.
The governing parties lost elections in Kano, Sokoto, Benue, Abia, Plateau, and Zamfara.
The former governor, who was recently expelled from the PDP for anti-party activities, predicted that a Tinubu led administration would ensure budget enhancements needed to address complex issues in health, education, social service sectors including potable drinking water and environmental sanitation.
The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Wednesday described Nigerian journalists as agents of change, saying they deserve the support of all.
I know he resided abroad when he went into exile.
The Nigerian police have nothing to do with pre-election or post-election cases,” the statement said.
Ms Brooks argued that the provision, which was passed as part of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 should not be applied retroactively to her final order of removal from 1992.
Bags and boxes were turned upside down,” Mrs Victoria narrated.
“The Nigerian state can witness rapid transformation and development based on democracy and the rule of law if legal practitioners stamp their fit on the ground and demand that the right thing be done in every case.
“The training was to equip you with the requisite skills required to protect yourselves, ECOWAS Mission in Guinea Bissau equipment and the citizens of Guinea Bissau, your host nation while carrying out the mission’s mandate,” he said.
We are now producing what we are eating.
The testimony of your performance is not only attested to in the media, as with the award presented to you yesterday but more importantly, by the great people of Osun,” he said.
Mr Ahmed said: “Drug abuse in Nigeria and misuse of drugs by the people are worst than any kind of crime that we think.
So, it is our responsibility to engineer the debate that will put on the table our perspective, our point of view, on what kind of financial architecture – global financial architecture – that would work not just for us but for everybody.”
Mr Adah has a robust record of high-profile cases with diverse subject matters to his name.
He said the government had already approved 10 million euros (10.8 million dollars) for initial expenses and emergencies resulting from the floods.
The police charged Mr Aigbe, alongsude two others – Promise Ukachukwu, and Olakunle Ogunleye – with criminal conspiracy, illegal possession of prohibited firearms, inciting disturbance and criminal intimidation which they pleaded not guilty to.
A democratic state based on the rule of law cannot exist or function, if the government routinely ignores and/or fails to abide by court orders.”
But he has since returned to the country.”
The two courts premised their verdicts on the grounds that the singer’s trial at the Upper Shari’a Court was fraught with fundamental irregularities.
The Federal University of Medical and Health Science is to be sited in Kwale, the headquarters of Ndokwa West LGA.
Mr Omotosho held that the NBC, not being a court of law, had no power to impose sanctions as punishment on broadcast stations.
The Presidential Election Petition Court had on Monday fixed Wednesday for further hearing of Mr Obi’s petition against Mr Tinubu’s victory.
Knighted by Nations like GCON
It contended that the court’s reliance on foreign laws like the Organisation of African Union Charter on the Prevention and Combating of Terrorism as well as the African Charter on Human and People’s Rights was at the expense of laws governing criminal procedure in Nigeria.
WhatsApp is an internationally available freeware, cross-platform, centralised instant messaging and voice-over-IP service owned by the tech conglomerate, Meta.
Abuja airport runway reopens after aircraft crash-lands
Providing insights into the case against Mr Mamman, sources said he allegedly conspired with officials of the Ministry of Power during his stint as minister to divert N22 billion in public funds and shared it with them.
So last week, both Mr Ramaphosa and the African National Congress (ANC) caused an uproar by announcing that South Africa intended, again, to withdraw from the ICC.
“Upon the conviction of a sex offender, the offender’s particulars shall be entered into the sex offenders register”.
Ohanaeze Ndigbo said its decision on whether to accept Mr Tinubu as president-elect will be taken after the court processes.
Citing instances of places where the presidential election could not hold due to violence, the petitioner alleged that votes were allocated to polling stations in Orlu, Orsu and Okigwe Local Government Areas of Imo State.
The prosecution accused him of committing “an act in furtherance of an act of terrorism” against Nigeria and its people made a broadcast received and heard in Nigeria within the jurisdiction of the court with intent to intimidate the population, issued a death threat against anyone who flouted his sit-at-home order.
According to Mr Abah, he was so impressed by Godwin’s skills and the money he saved that he even decided to give him a generous tip.
On Friday, he clarified in another broadcast that he had never accused Pope John Paul II of paedophilia.
The R21/Matrix-M vaccine is the second ever to be approved by the WHO and the first to exceed the WHO threshold of 75 per cent efficacy over 12 months of follow-up.
The move has attracted criticisms from many Nigerians including the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Health, Ibrahim Oloriegbe, whose recent tweet queried the rationale behind the bill.
PREMIUM TIMES reported how youths in Delta State protested with the victim’s corpse along major roads in Asaba.
Experts have since warned customers to be wary of banks’ social media handles they interact with, urging them to ensure they engage only verified accounts on Twitter and Facebook and to check the number of followers of the pages.
He said the international agency joins the call for more investment in human resources for health, by increasing pre-service training and implementing strategies to attract, retain and ensure optimal performance of highly motivated health workers in Nigeria.
Referencing Section 28 of the constitution, the legal luminary, said “Dual citizenship is allowable where one qualifies as a Nigerian by birth.”
A 2022 UK immigration report also showed that 13,609 Nigerian healthcare workers (including doctors) were granted working visas in the past year, making the country second only to the 42,966 from India.
Governor Wike, a member of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), led a group of PDP governors to rebel against his party and its presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar on the grounds that he (Wike) and others were in support of a power shift to the south.
Presidential spokesperson Garba Shehu in a statement described the trip as the president’s “last trip to the Kingdom as President, during which he will perform Umrah, the Lesser Pilgrimage.”
The Council, therefore, appeals to all concerned to ensure that they do not only comply but also comply on time.
Also in attendance were the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha; the Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Niyi Adebayo; Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed; Minister of State for Science, Technology and Innovation, Henry Ikoh; Deputy Chief of Staff to the President, Ade Ipaye, and the Head of Civil Service of the Federation, Folasade Yemi-Esan.
“This is to uphold basic human values regarded as vital to socio-economic lives by affirming to respect five broad categories of workers’ rights at work, embodying more than nine conventions,’’ Mr Buhari said.
“However, we see room for pockets of profit-taking activities.”
A Federal High Court on Tuesday ordered the release of processes and documents in the money laundering trial of a former Minister of State for Finance, Nenandi Usman and others to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC).
He has absolutely no reason for this nor desperate especially as throughout the campaign, he called for a new Nigeria defined by opportunities for all, an end to poverty and criminality in government, especially corruption and an end to tribal and religious division and bigotry.
The project was suspended two months after it was announced amidst concerns over its relevance and sustainability.
This resounding victory comes on the heels of a 1-1 draw in the first leg, bringing the aggregate to 5-1 in favour of the English side.
And I charge you to unite in spirit and faith and work in line with the party,” he said.
I, therefore, urge security agencies to do everything within their powers to unravel the killers and bring them to book,” Mr Mbah said.
On this year’s theme, “Shaping a Future of Rights: Freedom of expression as a driver for all other human rights”, President Buhari is delighted that the rights of Nigerian journalists have been protected and upheld in the past 8 years.
Suspect allegedly caught with human body parts denies offering police N1 million bribe
Deputy Speaker – South East – Hon.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Nigerian leader departed Saudi Arabia via King Abdulaziz International Airport Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, on Wednesday.
The statement by Messrs Lalong and Faleke stated that the ruling party decided to dissolve the PCC to focus on the inauguration of the president-elect.
According to Ms Oniha, this trend could have been avoided or at least moderated if revenues had been higher or expenditures lower.
With a margin lead of 13,676 and accredited voters figure of 43,881, the election could only be declared as inconclusive, he said.
The viral video shared on Twitter on Wednesday showed the moment three police officers were assaulting the young man.
They also accused the government of being “a serial abuser of workers’ rights and privileges committing several infractions in the process” and therefore made “sane and civil social dialogue difficult in the state.”
The judge ordered Mr Kulloma to remain in detention until the company, Mbuta Criterion Nigeria Limited, paid the 100,000 fine.
NAN reports that Mr Oluwafeyiropo was earlier arraigned on a two-count charge bordering on rape.
Nigeria’s secret police, the State Security Services (SSS) recently issued a security alert , alleging that some politicians are plotting an interim government for the nation in reaction to the outcome of the 2023 presidential election.
In response to complaints, the university authorities announced a reduction of the penalty fee from N10,000 to N5,000, but the students have insisted that the decision was exploitative.
“Thus, gratuity is a monetary benefit given by an employer to his/her employee at the time of retirement without the worker making any financial contribution whatsoever to the fund,” he said.
The government argued that the Justices of the Court of Appeal “erred in law when they relied on” Mr Kanu’s affidavit in support of his preliminary objection “to conclude that the respondent was illegally brought back to Nigeria.”
“As soon as they do the needful, we will go back to the court to obtain a court order to unseal the market for operations,” he added.
Mr Mulombo said the WHO will be leading an initiative to train 25 per cent of nurses and midwives in 25 low-income countries by 2025.
According to him, the 116 km Lagos to Ibadan will also be handed over to the government on 30 April, while the Loko-Oweto bridge linking Nasarawa and Benue states and the Utor bridge in Delta had been completed.
The centre was inside the University of Nigeria, Enugu Campus.
Some protesters were seen performing what appears to be ritual rites in the Ikwerre language.
Mr Alabo said the tanker crashed Thursday due to break failure and also destroyed eight other vehicles, six tricycles and two motorcycles.
Plateau State had 40 per cent, the highest in the north-central region.
The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Benue State has suspended former Minister of Works Barnabas Gemade from the party for alleged anti-party activities.
He commended Nigerian journalists for their critical role in advocating the realisation and enjoyment of democracy in Nigeria and elsewhere.
The National moonsighting committee is expected to release a detailed statement shortly.
I dashed him extra,” he wrote on Twitter.
Benue people are well aware that Governor Ortom has been a target of the Buhari presidency since 2017 when he boldly signed a law banning open grazing of livestock in the state.
The committee secretary also thanked Governor Yahaya Bello, for making the democratic process possible.
The introduction of the Bimodal Voters Accreditation System (BVAS) in the 2023 election for the first time ever indeed helped to ensure that only duly accredited voters could vote.
Mr Raheem was first elected in 2018, following the death of Funke Adedoyin who represented the constituency.
The Minister of State for Power, Abubakar Aliyu, has berated Nigerians over their attitude towards payment of electricity bill.
The court held that the provisions of CAMA 2020 violate fundamental rights of citizens and are inconsistent with the Nigerian constitution.
You will know that even my society is patriarchal.
Moreover, patients and visitors can enjoy access to a Healing Garden, designed to foster healing, relaxation, and enhancement of overall well-being.
He stated this on Wednesday during the induction of members-elect of the National Assembly in Abuja.
No reason was given for the withdrawal of his appointment, with the former governorship candidate in Imo State insisting in court that President Muhammadu Buhari lacked the power to remove him after he had been appointed.
“The nation is persistently on the part to greatness and I urge all Nigerians to positively deploy their creative energy to the full realisation of the coming prosperity, as there is surely light at the end of the tunnel,” he said.
A multi-million dollar project is all gone and we have a refinery.
Tinubu hails Nigerian scholars over election into American Academy of Arts & Sciences
“The testimony of the defendant’s former lover on how she had been harassed and assaulted by him, later led to their separate ways after three years of relationship.
Mr Atiku, who won four out of seven states in the region, gained 34 per cent (2.32 million) of the total votes.
In his message, the Chief Medical Director of the Federal Medical Centre, Jabi Abuja, Saad Ahmed, a professor, applauded the intervention of the First Lady and urged the involvement of more men of goodwill in the sector to reduce the financial burden associated with cardiac surgeries and care, especially for underprivileged Nigerians.
A police officer in Delta State, South-south Nigeria, has been detained for allegedly shooting a man to death in the state.
Throughout her work, information integrity has remained a central pillar.
The defendants must also submit to the court evidence of payment of tax till date, LASRRA identification and the court must certify that they meet the bail conditions before they can be released.
He added that the actual UTME test holds between Tuesday, 25th April and Wednesday, 3rd May.
Less than two weeks later, the jurist, on 16 December 2020, delivered the lead judgement of a three-member panel that ordered a retrial of a former spokesperson for the PDP, Olisa Metuh, earlier jailed for seven years for money laundering by the Federal High Court in Abuja.
According to him, any intervention by the executive on the matter impinges on the autonomy and independence of the legislative arm of government.
Chioma Oduenyi, the project director, USAID-MCGL, described the temporary shelter as crucial as a way of rebuilding survivors’ social assets in the country.
During a televised sentence hearing, the judge, Justice Johnson, said he took into consideration “a 51-page document” pleading for leniency for Mr Ekweremadu and highlighting how he is a person of upstanding character.
“Hence, under my leadership, the 9th National Assembly adopted a friendly but professional approach to executive-legislative relations.
The 131 batch of evacuees comprising 123 adults and eight infants aboard Tarco Aircraft: B737-300 from Port Sudan International Airport, arrived at 2.35p.m in Abuja.
The Vice President, Mr Chairman, we thank you, we can’t thank you enough, we thank you very much.”
“Understandably, some people seem to underrate us because we live a simple, modest life and we are not given to ostentatious displays of wealth and the vanities of life like some people do.
He noted that the success stories in these states would motivate other states to scale up PHC health services.
Mr Kasunmu said because such appointments were considered null and void, every remuneration that had been paid to them should be returned to the coffers of the state.
Mr Ani noted that the commission’s prompt response to approving the salaries was a result of the complaints and appeals from concerned Nigerians.
Earlier, Kaduna State Governor Nasir El-Rufai spoke at the meeting saying the 8 years that VP Osinbajo chaired NEC showed the council as the best of all the executive bodies spelt out in the Nigerian constitution.
The crisis in the group became pronounced following political differences and preferences that attended the 2023 presidential election.
“In continuation of its terrorism breach of armistice, flagrant violation of international laws, and established societal norms, the rebel Rapid Support militia forces carried out another attack this morning, Sunday, May 14, 2023.
The reality of President Buhari and his legacy is a far cry indeed from what the editorial describes as a leader who “failed to demonstrate any real grasp of modern economic ideas, and lacked the presence of mind or leadership acumen required to turn the ailing economy around”.
Senate passes bill increasing retirement age of High Court judges
Published by an online platform, News Digest, the article said Hillcrest Agro-Allied Industries Limited, a firm located at Kilometre 4, Ajase-Ipo along Offa Road, Amberi Village, Kwara State, allowed its staff members to deal in illicit drugs, Indian hemp.
By shaping the results of the election in an unprecedented manner, while reflecting the diverse make-up of the country in its fragmented incoming leadership, the third force has proven its viability on the Nigerian political scene.
The European Parliament said Ms Jatau is on trial “without the right to bail.”
May I cease this opportunity, by the way, to condemn the sanctions imposed on CHANNELS Television which anchored the performance of the LP candidate.
“Unlike in the previous arrangement where a small capacity aircraft would be sent without notifying officials about its capacity which usually resulted in disagreements between officials and intending pilgrims,” Mr Labbo said.
Nigerian students’ innovative project wins American university’s award
The resolution followed a motion moved by Ibrahim Isiaka (APC, Ogun), who claimed in his motion that the tip was provided by a whistleblower.
INEC is set to conduct elections in the remaining constituencies on 15 April.
Speaking during the Tuesday road commissioning, Mr Emmanuel wondered what he would do with the refinery when the coconut plantation is destroyed.
JAMB said it had been inundated with complaints of fraud allegedly by applicants, citing the case of Bayero University, Kano (BUK), which it noted expelled about 140 students for presenting fake A-level results.
‘’One of the problems we are having in this country is non-implementation of policies and the absence of accountability from those in authority.
In the 37th minute, Leao who was greatly missed in the first leg had a clear chance to break through Inter’s defence, waltzing past Darmian to have a one-on-one encounter with Onana but the Portuguese’s strike to the far left of the post went slightly off target.
The governorship candidate advised the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to stay away from him until the election petition tribunal completed its sittings in the state.
He said under Section 108 (1) of ACJA 2015, the court was also given the discretionary powers to either discharge and acquit the defendants or rather discharge them of the charge after taking into consideration the overall circumstance of the case.
The earlier election of 18 March was declared inconclusive due to over-voting in a polling unit.
BSC/HND Dichotomy: Group wants Buhari to assent to bill ending discrimination
Mr Keyamo, a member of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), requested the anti-corruption agencies to launch a probe of Atiku, the presidential candidate of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), in the middle of the campaigns for the last presidential election.
Barring any unprecedented legal decisions, Bola Tinubu will be sworn in as Nigeria’s next president on 29 May 2023.
Koleoso, widely known as Babalaje, began his political career when he was elected unopposed as Councilor in Ifedapo Local Government Area of the Old Oyo state in 1976.
The News Agency of Nigeria {NAN} reports that the 2023 World Press Freedom Day is themed, ‘Shaping a Future of Rights: “Freedom of Expression as a Driver of all other Human Rights.’
Atiku came second while Peter Obi came third.
‘’There should be political will to ensure the circulation of the new notes before the expiration date so we don’t have a repeat of cash crunch,’’ he said.
The court, therefore, struck out the terrorism charges filed against Mr Kanu by the Nigerian government and ordered his release from the custody of the State Security Service (SSS).
But, in a video circulating on the internet by African Independent Television (AIT), Mr Ganduje affirmed that the APC governors have decided to support former governor of Akwa Ibom, Godswill Akpabio, who is from the South-south.
According to him, during his administration, the government quickly moved to scrap the existing agencies and replaced them with new regulators, while the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited (NNPC) was immediately transformed into a limited liability.
“I can’t wait to go home to Daura.
He said that the project was part of government’s efforts to curb poverty and provide shelter for citizens.
“What offence have the candidates of the party committed that they are now moving around to withdraw their matters from the tribunals,’’ he queried.
“I believe that as our strategic partner, Nigeria, under your leadership, will continue its course to a prosperous future.
Speaking with this newspaper on Monday, the Group Corporate Communications and Event Manager for Dufil Prima Foods Plc, Temitope Ashiwaju, said the Indomie noodles consumed in Nigeria are not imported into the Nigerian market and that those produced locally are safe for consumption.
Buhari approves partial exclusion of Ministry of Finance Incorporated from TSA
He said the troops neutralised 24 terrorists, arrested 40 logistics suppliers including one female, four terrorists informants, and rescued 206 civilians.
Mr Obi denied playing politics of religion and ethnicity and asked his critics to provide evidence.
So I’m the highest ranking senator in both South-east and South-south,” he said.
Mr Buhari said his administration improved the military’s fighting power, training, operations, manpower, remunerations, and medical services.
He said, “Day after day, I have been guided by the vows I took to keep Nigeria united, prosperous and secure.
In Yeshua’s Name.”
Mr Adah’s decision inspired the law the Lagos State House of Assembly would later pass to give the ban on okada legal backing.
Atiku argued that Mr Tinubu is constitutionally barred from contesting for the presidency on account of his indictment for drug-related offences in the United States of America.
The commissioner said through the state’s prompt intervention and management, “the mother and baby are stable.
Mr Adagunodo died in the United States of America after suffering from an undisclosed illness.
He ordered the defendants to remain in police custody till the next date of adjournment.
“We later had a party at the BPC,” he added.
Binani asks court to stop INEC from voiding her illegal declaration as Adamawa governor-elect
Troops eliminate three bandits, recover weapons in Zamfara
“Therefore, you must strive to bring to bear all what you have learnt at the centre to protect yourselves in implementing the mission’s mandate, ” he said.
“These pictures were then used in blackmailing the victims, thereby forcing them into making huge financial payments,” EFCC said.
The spokesperson of the police in the state, Suleiman Nguroje, announced on Monday in Yola, the capital of the state, that it was one of the successes of the police’s collaborative strategies to end kidnapping, robbery, cattle rustling, and unlawful possession of firearms in the state.
A 25-year-old woman has been arrested in Anambra State for physically abusing her nine-year-old female house help in the state.
Candidates of some Opposition parties, including Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Peter Obi of the Labour Party (LP) are currently challenging Mr Tinubu’s victory at the Presidential Election Tribunal.
The bank described the speculation as unfounded and an attempt by some interests to cause panic among the public.
Yes, the west is also a fertile ground for extremism due to the perceived hypocrisy of its leaders.
“Happy Easter!”
Another officer was also filmed shoving a woman, who was with the man, into a car.
The Human and Environmental Development Agenda (HEDA Resource Centre), a leading anti-corruption group, has called on political parties and newly elected members of the National Assembly for the 10th Assembly to elect only corrupt-free lawmakers for leadership positions in the upcoming Assembly.
• Aliyu Ahmed Wadada Nasarawa West
Mr Soludo, on his part, had made unsuccessful attempts to stop the civil action in Anambra, shortly after being sworn-in as the governor of the state.
The main two categories of searches are: ‘Trending’ and ‘Most Searched’.
Officials in Cameroon, Gabon and the Republic of the Congo told ENACT that immediate solutions were needed in four areas: public awareness; increased funding for wildlife crime investigations; better collaboration among countries’ law enforcement authorities; and capacity building.
Mr Zhenlin noted that the China-Africa Economic and Trade Expo is “important to strengthen economic and trade cooperation between China and African countries, and an important platform for China and Africa to deepen cooperation in a comprehensive manner”.
According to the electoral law, the announcement should have been made by the returning officer of the election, who is a different person, usually an academic appointed by INEC for that purpose.
“She filed an application for waiver of the requirement to file the joint petition for removal of conditions, claiming that she entered the marriage in “good faith,” the Court of Appeals ruling obtained by this newspaper, stated.
“The voting is just a waste of time and energy because the votes do not count in any way in this country, Nigeria.
“Fiscal policymakers should buttress monetary and financial policymakers’ actions in getting inflation back to target while maintaining financial stability,” it said.
Mr Tinubu while submitting his presidential nomination form to INEC in June 2022, chose Ibrahim Masari, a politician from President Muhammadu Buhari’s home state Katsina, as a “placeholder” for the substantive vice presidential candidate who would later be Mr Shettima.
Nigeria claims that this was done to conceal incriminating communications.
The president-elect is reportedly a close friend of the former President of Guinea, Alpha Condé.
Nigeria commenced the first phase of the evacuation of its citizens from troubled Sudan on Wednesday with the hiring of 40 buses.
The upcoming match will be held in Istanbul’s Ataturk Olympic stadium.
“Earlier today (Sunday), I and the team of my colleagues paid a condolence visit to the family of our beloved colleague, the late Hon.
”I, therefore, feel both humble and grateful for this extraordinary and significantly important moment.
NAN recalled that a similar incident of collapse of a high-rise block of flats, under construction at Ikoyi in Lagos, occurred in November 2021.
The PDP candidate won five out of six states in the region.
“While leaders and members of the APC, especially in the National Assembly, are waiting for the ruling party’s direction in terms of zoning of the parliamentary leadership positions, it is our strong belief that it will be strategic for the party to zone the position of Senate President to the North-West.
“This will bring succour to us and send a signal to others nursing similar criminal intents to steer clear.
The digitalized CMRIS will effectively serve the purpose of obtaining additional information from members of the public about stolen vehicles and populating the Stolen Vehicle database so as to ensure that vehicles to be registered by the CMR are not stolen and to aid investigation of stolen vehicles and vehicle-associated incidents.
The constitution guarantees the financial autonomy of the National Assembly.
The DHQ says the terrorists were killed in various military operations across North-east, North-central and North-west regions of the country.
Download IBA’s full report here
In a statement issued on Tuesday, the Civil Society Coalition Against Impunity coalition, which comprises about 29 civil society organisations, asked the police authorities to immediately release the corps member or charge him to court, if he was found culpable of any crime.
“Indeed, it is being rumoured that one aspirant for the Senate Presidency and another for Speakership are willing to offer as much as $500,000 to $1 million per vote.
The tournament features four days of action and features some of the biggest names in the sport.
Mrs Okpe said the accident, which occurred at 6.25 p.m. on 6 May, involved a Toyota car with registration number KSF122 FB and a Sino truck marked FZE 840 G.
The abductors have reportedly established contact with Mr Okwekwe’s wife.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that section 308 of the constitution provides:
The resolution followed a motion moved by Ibrahim Isiaka (APC, Ogun), who claimed that the allegation was provided by a whistleblower.
“Contacts are underway between Netherlands Commission for Monuments and the Commission for Monuments of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.
Meanwhile, a human rights advocacy organisation, Rule of Law and Accountability Advocacy Centre (RULAAC), has condemned the killing of the victim by the police inspector.
INEC, in a statement on Tuesday, by the Resident Electoral Commissioner, Johnson Sinikiem, solicited the cooperation of political parties seeking to inspect the materials used for the elections in the state.
Mr Buhari only worked on the recommendation of the minister when he announced the termination of the appointment of Ms Umar as NIPC boss.
48, which seeks to empower the National Assembly, in extreme circumstances, to summon the President to appear before it and answer questions on matters that the Assembly has powers to make laws.
“During my condolence message as we visited the wife of the deceased and his biological parents, I promised them, that his son shall be placed on scholarship from primary education to any level he desires to attain henceforth,” he said.
The agency also urged the community leaders to sensitise people who have built on flood plains and those living along river banks to relocate to safer and higher places.
Mr Ikpeazu said the state government remained committed to improving the welfare of workers and would address all issues pertaining to their salary arrears.
Aerial view of Court of Appeal headquarters complex in Abuja.
The defence counsel, Lekan Egberongbe, however, prayed the court to remand the defendant in police custody, due to his health reasons.
“Among the victims were 29 male adults, one female adult and one female child.
He said that while the forum would receive the governors-elect on the platform of the party, it would also use the occasion to send off past chairmen of the forum, including Segun Mimiko, Ayodele Fayose, Ibrahim Dankwambo and Seriake Dickson.
“In spite of technology, it will not be easy to get to Daura,” he said.
“Going forward, we will double our speed,” he said.
And they start changing the goalpost.
Lol,” he said.
And a difficult business environment always means fewer investors, fewer jobs and less opportunities for all.”
“Having considered the Plaintiffs motion of 17/12/2020 which is uncontested, I am of the view that the application has merit in view of the grounds of the application, the unchallenged affidavit and the exhibits annexed.
A few remarkable incidents include that of former Petroleum Minister, Mrs. Diezani Alison-Maduke, who got away with several allegations in 2014, including the one on 10 billion Naira cost of aircraft leasing.
“Looking back, you will agree with me that from where we met Imo State in 2020 and where we are in 2023, there is a huge difference.
Another issue Mr Ekpenyong raised before the court was whether the provisions of the ‘Administrative Proceedings Committee’ in section 851 of CAMA is not in conflict with section 6 (6) (b) and section 36 (1) and 251(1) (e) of the constitution.
In Nigeria, every May 1 is a special day in our national calendar.
The police subsequently charged the pastor alongside his two co-defendants, illegal possession of prohibited firearms and related offences.
Sounding emotional, Mr Tinubu expressed gratitude to God that he, “the first Muslim minority from the South-west got the blessing of Allah to be elected president.”
In 2012, the UN-backed Special Court for Sierra Leone convicted and sentenced Taylor to 50 years in jail for fueling the Sierra Leonean war.
Cape Town — The International Fund for Public Interest Media (IFPIM) has launched the International Fund for Public Interest Media, an initiative intended to support public interest media around the world.
“A search was conducted, but they were not found until the following morning when the suspect was arrested at Obe Community in the same (Nkanu West) Local Government Area by police operatives serving in Nkanu West Division of the Enugu State Command, with the assistance of indigenes, while he was attempting to escape back to Ogidi, Anambra State,” he said.
The statement disclosed that the council also approved a contract for the development of the external cost of infrastructure at the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) new training academy, which will cost approximately N3.3 billion naira.
Mr Tinubu trailed with 127,605 votes (5.8 per cent) while Atiku got 91,198 votes (4 per cent).
I also believe it is high time we give women a strong voice and a strong woman that—with my personality, someone who is loyal within the party, who is also working with the governors and the system, I believe I will be a rallying point for the south-east, for the women, and for the youths, even for the Christian faith because I will work across board to ensure balance.
Peter Obi, the presidential candidate of the Labour Party in the 2023 election, in his reaction to his passing, described Mr Mbang as a “man known to be sincere in words and actions”.
That question is currently being asked severally on the social media on confrontation with the share immense number of Nigerian students studying in Sudan.
“Currently, the Council allows the upload of CASS data in SS1, SS2 and SS3, designated as CASS Year 1, CASS Year II and CASS Year III at different upload periods,” he said.
The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and the Trade Union Congress (TUC) in Imo State have declared an indefinite strike over attacks by suspected political thugs on their members during the 2023 May Day celebration in the state on Monday.
President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday inaugurated a N9.5 billion Zuba Housing Estate in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT).
The details of the meeting were sketchy at the time of filing this report but in a video of the meeting obtained by our reporter, Mr Akpabio was seen introducing the senators-elect to Mr Tinubu.
We will continue with the engagements so we can have a rancour-free Assembly.
Julius Abure, the suspended national chairman of the Labour Party, was caught in a web of leadership dispute with Mr Apapa, who was earlier suspended by the party.
Parents accuse school guard of defiling 4-year-old pupil in Lagos
[PHOTO CREDIT: Official webpage of Court of Appeal]Mr Adah hails from Dekina Local Government Area of Kogi State in North-central Nigeria.
Before his election, he was special adviser to Taraba State Governor, Darius Ishaku, MD/CEO Maihanci Integrated Solutions Nigeria Limited and MD/CEO Maihanci Multi-Links Resources Limited.
Mr Malami noted that other innovations in the bill just passed by the senate include: the abolition of trial within trial which delayed criminal proceedings, and filing of witness deposition to promote speedy trial and they would help enhance criminal justice in Nigeria.
The race participants are divided into eight-member teams and race for the fastest time possible.
The Senate has confirmed the appointment of Ayogu Eze (Enugu) and five others as Federal Commissioners for  (RMAFC).
They stopped Mr Apapa from granting interview to the journalists, as they accused him of factionalising the Labour Party.
So for me, it is just like when there is thunder and lightning before the rain, once the rain falls, those things will disappear.
The Senate has condemned the attacks that claimed many lives and destroyed properties in some communities in Benue State.
On Thursday, two residents of the Buni Gari community went into the bush to fetch firewood, they were caught by the insurgents, one of them identified as Abba Gawi, 40, was shot dead, and the terrorist group asked the other person to go home and report the incident and tell people to come and recover the corpse, a source in the military said.
He was later appointed by Chief Ige, first executive governor of Oyo State, as Commissioner.
He noted that colleagues who are impacted by this announcement have all made invaluable contributions to the company.
(Media and Publicity)
1: Easter and our Inconclusive Dreams:
Nobel laureate, Wole Soyinka, has blamed the governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria for the hardship faced by Nigerians due to the implementation of the Naira swap policy.
Mr Emmanuel who said the incident occurred at a time the state government was about concluding negotiations with foreign investors on the coconut plantation and its refinery urged youth leaders in the state to rise up and condemned the action.
To me, even on this note, it’s unacceptable.
PREMIUM TIMES reported that Mr Tinubu settled for Godswill Akpabio (South-south) and Barau Jibrin (North-west) for the senate president and deputy senate president respectively.
The affected polling unit is the unit of the state Chairman of the PDP, Sikirulah Ogundele, whose son is also the PDP candidate for the constituency.
Returnees received dignity packs and N100,000 transportation fare supported by the Dangote Foundation.
All shops and business premises along Rumuola to Rumuokwuta Roads in the Obio/Akpor Local Government Area of the state shall remain closed from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m., on Wednesday.
He said the association would not allow the takeover of the school’s lands which he alleged have been distributed among Kaduna bigwigs.
The panel’s chairman, Mr Tsammani, asked lawyers in the suit to respond to all pending applications before the next adjourned date.
The move ramps up his combined stake in the group to 10.5 billion shares or 25.9 per cent.
27: 24).
Senior Special Assistant to the President
The judge sentenced him to one-year imprisonment with an option of N100,000.
Her work is distinguished by an unflinching willingness to shine a critical light on some of Mexico’s most powerful institutions, despite the risks such reporting entails.
Tochukwu Simeon Ogbadibo (Jossy United)
Incidentally, COVID-19 happened and ensure global shutdown for the better part of 2020.
Those confirmed included Osita Ogbu (South-east) Umar Gambo Jibrin (North-central), Mohammed Haruna(North-east) Yasmine Dalhatu(South-west).
Mr Tinubu and the APC picked Mr Akpabio (South-south) and Barau Jibrin (North-west) as preferred senate president and deputy senate president respectively.
It said Mr Yakubu, by this present suit, replicated his application at the Supreme Court.
“Those behind such acts are highly ignorant of the damages they cause to themselves and the Igbo nation on a daily basis.
The musician is described as the ‘Hip Fuji creator, having combined Fuji with Hip Hop.
On Monday, when PREMIUM TIMES reached out to the Ministry of Mines and Steel Development, an official in the ministry, who did not want to be named, noted that officials could not yet confirm the authenticity of the claim.
Nigeria’s president-elect, Bola Tinubu, whose victory in February is being challenged in court, has been keeping part of his wealth in the United Kingdom, where he and his close associates own at least 20 properties that were mostly acquired when Tinubu was the governor of Lagos State.
Speaking earlier during the gathering, the leader of the delegation, Mr Chukwu, said their visit to the governor was to further discuss the way forward for Ndi Igbo, and the need for them to come together and plan ahead, adding that although Nzuko Umunna is a political organisation, it is non-partisan.
Unless and until we begin to structure such a pattern of choosing our candidates or establishing such performance indices to select our leaders, changing our consciousness to performance-driven and character competence, rather than dollarization and monitorization, then we have lost it.
He adjourned the matter until 25 May for hearing.
Senator-elect for Imo North Senatorial District, Patrick Ndubueze, has declared his intention to contest for president of the 10th Senate.
Which kind nonsense be dis?
“Approximately 1,500 jobs worldwide will have to be cut over the coming 12 months,” ICRC said.
Today at 85, Koleoso is one of the surviving triumvirates of the Bola Ige cabinet of 1979 – 1983, Ige himself having been assassinated in 2001.
He said the incident occurred a few days after a similar invasion occurred in the Imo state secretariat of the party.
The Chief of Staff to President Muhammadu Buhari, Ibrahim Gambari, has urged Nigerians to start building support and provide an enabling environment for the incoming government to thrive.
In 2021, Mr Awoyemi obtained a Doctoral Degree in Information Resources Management with a specialisation in Strategic ICT Use in Library Services from Babcock University.
When we get to every bridge, I will cross it.
Pangolins are the most trafficked mammals in the world, and Central Africa is emerging as a hotspot for these crimes.
According to the statement, the minister explained that the “Subsidy Removal Committee” currently comprises the Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Ministry of Petroleum Resources, Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC) Limited, the downstream and upstream regulators, Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and the Chief Economic Adviser to the President.
The story of the technician has generated a lot of reactions on Twitter, with many people hailing him as an embodiment of the Nigerian spirit of ingenuity and resourcefulness.
Not many cases have been credited to her in the media, but there is one that cast her in the mould of a courageous judge.
Mr Kanu, who was rearrested in Kenya and brought back to Nigeria in June 2021, was facing treasonable felony charges before fleeing Nigeria in September 2017.
“For instance, while prematurity is now the leading cause of all under-five deaths globally, less than a third of countries report having sufficient newborn care units to treat small and sick babies,” he said.
The police have disclosed the faces and names of the three officers who assaulted a motorist in Rivers State, South-south Nigeria.
Nobody is going scot-free this time.
“We are committed to addressing these issues and creating a more favourable environment for Nigerian workers to thrive.
Other processing facilities include the $700 million plant under construction by Seplat and Nigeria Gas Company joint venture, which is expected to come online in 2023.
Mr Agbazue, a chief superintendent of police, is among three high-ranking officers from the unit being investigated by the Inspector-General of Police, Usman Alkali (IGP) over their alleged involvement in illegal arrests and extra-judicial killings and organ harvesting, among others.
He also urged INEC to redeem its image, saying voters were already disenchanted with the 25 February and 18 March general elections.
PREMIUM TIMES learnt that Mr Ubi, an inspector, reportedly shot the victim to death for refusing to pay N100 bribe at a checkpoint in the area.
At the end of March, Amnesty International interviewed five Chibok school girls who had escaped from Boko Haram and their parents.
“Some of our customers may have received a call or message asking for their card details and Bank Validation Number (BVN) for disbursement of COVID-19 funds,” the press statement reads.
Mr Kwankwaso was Kano’s governor from 1999 to 2003, and from 2011 to 2015.
“Our party members and supporters should vote overwhelmingly for APC to complement and solidify the victory we recorded in the earlier polls.
The two parties and their candidates filed the petitions marked EPT/Gov/01/2023 and EPT/OG/Gov/04/2023 in April.
“The last time we spoke was on Thursday during my stopover in Wiesbaden Germany.
Africa’s assertive approach can be attributed to the EU’s lack of moral authority on vaccine hoarding, travel bans and double standards on decarbonisation.
A witness says the vehicles collided while at high speed.
His decisions have triggered applause and controversies.
“For him to go on his own to seize the phone is criminal,” said Mr Kpanga, a retired deputy superintendent of police.
The Newspaper Proprietors’ Association of Nigeria (NPAN), the Nigerian Guild of Editors (NGE), the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), the Broadcasting Organisation of Nigeria (BON), and the Guild of Corporate Online Publishers (GOCOP) had in early April inaugurated a nine-member board of the National Media Complaints Commission (NMCC), otherwise known as the National Ombudsman.
The Presidential Election Petition Court in Abuja is set to commence hearing on the complaints filed by opposition political parties and their candidates challenging the president-elect, Bola Tinubu’s victory.
So, the processing of evacuees by the Nigerian Embassy in Egypt will begin,” Abike Dabiri-Erewa, chairperson of the Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NiDCOM) announced in a tweet.
In a statement signed by Marcel Anyatonwu, Media Officer of the agency on Friday, Akobundu called on farmers to use the knowledge acquired for their personal, community and national benefit.
EFCC secures final forfeiture of N10 billion properties linked to Kwankwaso’s administration
The House of Representatives has asked President Muhammadu Buhari to suspend the “last minute” concession of Ajaokuta Steel Company.
Thousands of people have been killed or kidnapped in Zangon Kataf in Southern Kaduna which is experiencing an upsurge of attacks by terrorists
The movie closes with the compelling fact that no lie is too small.
They were also runners-up on three occasions (1987, 2001 and 2009).
INEC had on 1 March declared Mr Tinubu of the All Progressives Congress (APC) winner of the 25 February presidential election.
Where is the person getting the money from?” he stated.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Mr Kanu, who is detained by SSS over terrorism and treasonable felony charges instituted against him by the federal government, sued the SSS and its Director General as 1st and 2nd respondents in the matter.
The four pupils were taken out of Mr Gide’s camp by three motorcycles and taken to a community around Koko Local Government in Kebbi State after which another set of waiting party took over the students to Birnin Kebbi, the state capital.
Broda Shaggi joins UNILAG troupe to showcase play at Terra Kulture
“My aspiration for the presidency of the 10th Senate is covered by relevant provisions of the 1999 Constitution, which to me is superior to any other law or arrangement,” he said.
Taraba APC crisis deepens as faction wants ex-chairman arrested
It added that the court’s decision caused “a miscarriage of justice.”
PROPOSED APC ZONING FORMULA FOR NASS LEADERSHIP POSITIONS IS A SKEWED ARRANGEMENT THAT REINFORCES INJUSTICE AND ENHANCES INEQUITY
“The adoption of cyclic training, which allows each recruit to undergo every aspect of training, has made you a strong force to be reckoned with,’’ Mr Yahaya told the recruits.
The records show that deficits in the annual budgets, including supplementary budgets, rose to N10.78 trillion in 2023 from N1.62 trillion in 2015.
Count 3 said that Mr Musa “on the same date, time and place did assault one Omolara James by slapping her on her face and thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 170 and punishable under Section 172 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015.”
“A total of 81 units will, therefore, be participating in the parade; 53 colours will be due for retirement, while 28 will be presented to new units.
It is unclear for now if the invitation was in connection with his activities while serving as minister of Niger Delta Affairs or during his tenure as governor of oil-rich Akwa Ibom
“We are determined in the fight against any forms of violence meted out to women and girls in the state,” Mrs Okah assured.
The meeting was attended by the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami; the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed; the Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed; the Minister of State, Budget and National Planning, Clem Agba and the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha.
He was kidnapped by some unknown gunmen who held him for a few days in October 2014.
It also maintained that the number of suspected cases increased compared to that reported for the same period in 2022, adding that three new healthcare workers were affected in the reporting week.
It is about $10,000 per hour.
Olalenkan Ponle, also known as Woodberry, has agreed to make a restitution of over $8 million to victims of his years-long extensive online scams.
He sought re-election as governor under the PDP platform, but was denied the party’s ticket under controversial circumstances amidst internal crisis within the party at the time.
“They were fighting all through the local government area in the 17 polling units.
The R21, otherwise referred to as Matrix-M malaria vaccine, is the second vaccine ever developed for a disease that claims more than 600,000 lives each year, most of which are children.
“History will remember you kindly.
Several controversies have trailed the Labour Party and its Presidential candidate, Peter Obi after the party rejected the outcome of the just-concluded presidential election in February.
The battle now shifts to the Presidential Election Tribunal.
Mr Lamidi’s faction said it acted in line with the ruling by the FCT High Court which granted an Interim Injunction Order that restrained Mr Abure and three others from parading themselves as national officers.
Speaking after receiving a message from President Ibrahim Ghali of the Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic, SADR from a Special Envoy at the State House Friday, Mr Buhari said peace and stability are central to the vision of Nigeria in Africa, adding that these were essential to security and prosperity in the continent.
He said the understanding of these factors helped the agency and its partners to design tailored interventions aimed to address vaccine hesitancy and ensure essential services were still being delivered to communities.
“We’re also seeing shifts in customer behaviour and slower revenue growth.
From Lagos to Rivers, from north to southern parts of the country, all over, violence characterised that election.
Sudan is back inside its blood-spilling puddle.
The exercise was led by Shola Jejeloye, the chairman of the state’s Environmental Sanitation and Special Offences Unit (Task Force).
It is entirely anonymous, and no personal data is collected at any stage.
The appellant in their application are also seeking the court to set aside the April 15 re-run election that declared Doguwa as winner, member representing Tudun Wada/ Doguwa Federal constituency.
These are computer-generated avatars created by artificial intelligence (AI) software.
In a statement on Saturday evening by his spokesperson, Oguwike Nwachuku, Mr Uzodinma said there was no such attack on his convoy.
She also said at least 28 countries in Africa have expressed interest in introducing the vaccine, with some additional countries to start in early 2024.
“Given the high confidence you had in HE Sen. Abdullahi Adamu, which made you to nominate him to emerge as the National Chairman of our party, the least one would expect is that he will conduct himself strictly based on requirements as provided in the APC constitution,” he said.
On the geopolitical zoning arrangement, the president-elect is from the South-west, while the vice-president elect is from the North-east.
The fight was between Wurkunawa and Karimjo ethnic groups in the state.
According to the statement, President Muhammadu Buhari gave the committee the necessary support to bring back any willing Nigerians.
Four African countries accounted for just over half of all malaria deaths worldwide: Nigeria (31.3 per cent), the Democratic Republic of the Congo (12.6 per cent), the United Republic of Tanzania (4.1 per cent) and Niger (3.9 per cent).
“It is to be noted that about 100 centres out of the 708 participating in the 2023 UTME exercise across the country experienced technical challenges that prevented their allotted candidates from successfully taking their examination,” he said.
The LP candidate polled 169,414 votes at the time, while Mr Tinubu scored 148,979 votes.
However, WHO has reported that most recent cases have been detected in gay, bisexual or other men who have sex with men, particularly in non-endemic countries.
The rumour surrounding the election is part of the story of the election.
The Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, gave the admonition in Washington DC during his official engagements with some international media organisations and policy institutes.
PREMIUM TIMES reported that Mr Nwamini was not a minor, based on the details provided by the Nigerian Immigration Service (NIS) and Westminster Magistrate Court last June.
PT: Is this confidence backed by actual politics in the House?
He was arraigned alongside one Ali Musa, 27.
From 2011, there have been incremental and noticeable improvements in the country’s elections as witnessed in 2015, 2019 and now 2023.
Who is the winner of the 2023 Presidential election?
CPJ contacted Djibouti Deputy Director of Public Security Omar Hassan and Interior Minister Said Nuh Hassan via messaging app and text message for comment, but did not immediately receive any responses.
Similarly, the North-west is expected to produce the Speaker of the House of Representatives while the South-east will produce the deputy speaker.
Laying the basis for questioning the decision discharging Mr Kanu, the government said the Court of Appeal was wrong to have only considered the procedure of the IPOB leader’s extraordinary rendition from Kenya without examining the gravity of the alleged crimes he was being tried for.
“On Saturday, police raided cultists’ hideouts in Emuren, Shagamu Local Government Area of Ogun,’’ a resident said.
As the nation celebrates Workers’ Day, the President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Yakubu Maikyau, has commended Nigerian workers for their resilience in national affairs.
He pled guilty to one count of wire fraud involving about $188,000 which he fraudulently obtained from a US firm identified as Victim Company B in just one transaction in January 2019.
Revolutions are not however based on the impetus of speculative power entitlement.
“We are aware of the theatrics in the 8th National Assembly.
IPOB has reportedly declared a sit-at-home for three days in the region.
On Tinubu’s presidency from 29 May, Mr El-Rufai said Nigerians would not regret voting for the president-elect, stressing that better days were ahead of Nigerians under Tinubu.
While one of them hit him with what appeared to be a metal rod, another pushed him to forcefully take away his motorcycle.
We will miss him,” Mr Osoba said.
“The National Ombudsman will serve as an appellate body for the local Ombudsman as well as a court of first instance,” Mr Yusuf said.
This was intended as an African response to the Rwandan genocide and many other wars and civil strife.
NAN reports that the Supreme Court had earlier extended the validity of the old naira notes till Dec. 31.
Baba was a go-getter who delivered on any assignment committed to his hands because of his belief that service should always come first.
11:23am: INEC lawyer, Mr Mahmoud says he has no objection to the withdrawal of the petition by AA.
He said Mr Malami wrote a letter to the committee that he will cooperate with the panel and provide needed information on the ongoing investigation.
This avoids the wholesome effect of veto.
“The students escaped from a forest around the Kaduna – Niger interstate boundaries and walked for days before arriving at a location (kept undisclosed for security reasons) where they were harboured.
Members of the Presidential Election Petition Court (PEPC) would adjudicate on all petitions filed against the declaration of Mr Tinubu and the APC as winners of the disputed 2023 presidential election.
Another surprise name on the list is the 90-year-old Nathan Kirsh from the tiny African Country of Swaziland.
Ms Otubusin said oral health has been neglected by many, hence the need to sensitise them on the importance of taking care of their health.
Many prosecution witnesses, who said they had travelled from Lofa to Monrovia for the hearings when the Court was first here, accused Mr Massaquoi of killing their relatives.
“That is the only way to guard against the situation because the approval is supposed to be in phases as you give approval in phase one, when they do according to the specification you now give them approval for the second phase that is how it should be.
Yakubu Maikyau, the NBA president, announced this in a statement dated 15, which he released on Sunday.
They also sought “an order of perpetual Injunction restraining the respondent, its servants, agents, privies, representatives or anyone acting for or on its behalf, from imposing fines on any of the broadcast stations or any other broadcast station in Nigeria for any alleged offence committed under the Nigerian Broadcasting Code.”
One of the aspirants for the position of Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yusuf Gagdi, says the zoning of the position to the North-west region by the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) is unjust, hence, making it hard for party officials to preach party supremacy to members.
Mr Adeshina said that NDLEA also seized more than 5,500 tons (5.5 million kilogrammes) of assorted illicit drugs.
Mr Ahmad, a former speaker of the Kwara State House of Assembly and professor of constitutional law and legislative studies at the University of Abuja, made the call in an open letter addressed to the senate president.
“I see this as a landmark achievement in line with the mandate of advocacy, sensitization and mobilization.
PREMIUM TIMES reported that the National Working Committee of the APC, on Monday, ratified the zoning formula of the National Assembly positions proposed by Mr Tinubu.
Mr AbdulRazaq however tasked the public to embrace peace and support the incoming administration after May 29 for Nigeria to attain its destined greatness.
The party’s spokesperson in Lagos State, Hakeem Amode, stated on Tuesday in Lagos that the State Working Committee reached the resolution after appraising the outcome of the 2023 general elections.
While Air Peace conveyed 282, NAF conveyed 96 evacuees.
“Let me tell you, I am not a religious bigot.
“It is a hire and fire arrangement.
The House also mandated the security agencies to be alert to forestall the possible breakdown of law and order.
According to the statement, the National Committee of IPI Nigeria inaugurated Funke Egbemode as the chair of the Committee on Fund Raising, Hajia Sani, as the chair of the Committee on Programmes and Tobi Soniyi as the chair of the Committee on Advocacy.
Meanwhile, Mr Dangote retained his position as the wealthiest person of African descent in the world, Forbes noted.
If I want to pull down this hall and build a better one, who is going to stop me as a government?
Ms Moeti said the day serves as a reminder to all to work towards achieving UHC by 2030.
While commending the state government’s efforts in reactivating the free trade zones scheme, the managing director restated NEPZA’s commitment towards supporting full implementation and the success of the project.
During interrogation, the suspect stated that he is a member of a three-man gang of armed robbers who uses a tricycle to rob innocent people of their belongings along Airport Road Warri.
My cousin turned to leave, but the policeman dragged him and continued insulting him,” he told PREMIUM TIMES in a series of phone conversations explaining how his Mr Wada was shot.
In 2012, he was named one of Harvard’s Walter Channing Cabot Fellows, for distinguished publications.”
The first three private universities in Nigeria – Babcock University, Igbinedion University and Madonna University– were established in 1999, according to the National Universities Commission (NUC).
Their lawyer, Ibraheem Gambari, in a statement shared with PREMIUM TIMES, expressed his clients’ “confidence in the merit of the appeal.”
“As ICJ Judge, Justice Ajibola made his mark as one of the brightest legal minds in the world in many decided cases involving state actors across the world.
“Owning a home via an offshore company has seldom made much sense except for securing secrecy."
Mrs Okpe stated that the injured victims were taken to Victory Hospital, Ogere, for medical attention while the deceased were deposited at FOS Morgue, Ipara in Remo North local government area of Ogun.
He also urged government and security agencies to hasten measures to prevent the terrorists from taking over the area.
It is therefore laughable when Shehu ignorantly tries to whip up an unfounded lie against the Governor.
But there was no consultation.
Relying on Order 8 Rule 16 of the Supreme Court Rules, Mr Njoku prayed the court to correct the said error in the lead judgment it delivered on 14 October 2021, in an appeal that was presided over by Mary Peter-Odili (Rtd).
Navy arrests 27 vessels, deactivates 294 illegal refinery sites within 12 months – Official
You saw them looking at me with so much admiration and so much love.
President-elect, Bola Tinubu, has enjoined Christians in Nigeria to use the occasion of the Easter to reflect on the priceless sacrifice and limitless love of God for mankind.
In the event that the party prioritises religion for the Senate presidency race, then the race will be between the South-east and the South-south, while the speakership race will be between the North-west and the North-central.
“This centre in Port Harcourt, with a capacity for 1,800 inmates, presently houses about 3,067 inmates.
“Please avoid Nwaniba, it's not safe.”
Mr Mamu pleaded not guilty to the counts and subsequently prayed the court for a bail on the grounds of ill-health.
But Mr Macdon, a superintendent of police, has advised law abiding citizens to go about their normal businesses urging them to furnish the police with information about threats to their lives.
Two members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) have pleaded with a High Court in Abuja to disqualify the party’s governorship candidate in Kogi State, Ahmed Usman-Ododo, and other public office holders who participated in the 11 April primary election without resigning from their positions.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) gathered that the incident took place at Moniya Motor Park in Akinyele Local Government Area of the state.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reported that Mr Ozekhome informed reporters after Thursday’s proceedings that he has a pending application seeking the release of Mr Kanu on bail, or an order transferring the detainee from the SSS custody to the Kuje correctional centre in Abuja.
The essence of this meeting is to bring every member elect together to discuss.
PREMIUM TIMES had reported that Mr Gagdi met with the Abia State governor-elect of the Labour Party, Alex Otti, as he targets the 36 members-elect of the party.
The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila says “interagency disagreements” is to be blamed for the challenges that have dogged the evacuation of Nigerians from war-ravaged Sudan.
He argued that most of the criticisms levelled against him were “misinformed and misguided due to the linear approach to analysing the issues.”
Each time we asked for Kosisochukwu, the officers there would threaten us with rifles,” the mother added.
PREMIUM TIMES in this report, therefore, seeks to sensitise the public to what the symptoms are, how it is transmitted, and how Nigerians can stay safe.
This newspaper reported a similar call by the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) and human rights lawyer, Femi Falana, urging the court to grant permission to media houses to transmit the court’s proceedings live.
Mr Igbanoi, who accused Mr Keyamo of engaging in abuse of office, urged the court to decline jurisdiction among other grounds, that no cause of action was disclosed by the plaintiff.
He explained that the value of the goods intercepted was N2.7 billion, while the balance of N61.4 million was for demand notices it raised based on some infractions.
The renowned playwright said it is inappropriate to say Peter Obi's visit to him was for reconciliation.
The president, who leaves office on 29 May, said the appointment was meant to enable Nigeria to keep the important position and make way for Mr Umar to complete his nationally beneficial tenure as an Executive Member of the International Police Organisation (INTERPOL).
Salisu Buhari, Ghali Umar Na’Abba and Aminu Bello Masari as Speakers.
Meanwhile, a president-elect delegation led by Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, also paid a condolence visit to the family of a former Minister of Labour and Productivity, Musa Gwadabe, in Kano.
The government told the Supreme Court that the IPOB leader was standing trial at the Federal High Court, but “flouted” the orders of the court and “jumped bail.”
Court voids Sanwo-Olu’s Park and Garage committee, reinstates RTEAN
“To our surprise, key leaders of the PDP in Zamfara received an invitation letter from the office of the Inspector General of Police on trumped-up charges of criminal conspiracy to rig/compromise the 2023 general elections.
A result from the Civic Centre Hall Polling Unit in Rumuigbo Ward, for instance, showed that a result from the House of Representatives election was uploaded in place of that of the presidential election.
They denied the charges.
“The consignments were mostly concealed in heavy-duty trucks, and buses.
However, even more importantly, they remain irrelevant to the rights and wrongs of ongoing material issue.
According to the minister, the intensity of work and the high volume of traffic which had to be accommodated at the same time have been complicated by impatience on the part of some motorists who drive against the planned traffic flow and breakdown of vehicles.
The spokesperson of the PDP, Sydney Gbara said the APC was liaising with INEC to concoct results to subvert the mandate of the people, while his APC counterpart, Darlington Nwauju said the current happenings showed that the PDP and INEC were working together to frustrate his party from getting documents to challenge the results of the elections at the Election Petition Tribunal.
“Around 7:15 p.m., Anas (Mr Wada) was sitting with some friends and older colleagues when one of his bosses asked him to go to a tea seller stand and place an order for him.
The outlawed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has announced that there would be a sit-at-home in Nigeria’s south-east on 30 May.
The Inspector General of Police also ordered the removal of the Commissioner of Police in Adamawa, Mohammed Barde, who was present at the collation centre when Mr Ari made the illegal declaration.
‘‘It is instructive to inform council and indeed all Nigerians that I had on December 22, 2021, launched the first of the six number 5-year medium-term plans, the National Development Plan (NDP), 2021-2025, that will be used to implement the Long-Term Plan.
Mr Olasupo, who is the founder and global director of Brainbuiders Youth Development Initiative (BBYDI), is scheduled to speak on the theme: “Strengthening the Trust of Youth in Multilateralism: Exploring Intergenerational and Peer-to-Peer Dialogue”.
Wike has declared a public holiday in the state because of the president-elect's visit.
“The PDP insists that such subversive conduct of Mallam Hudu Yunusa Ari must not go unpunished.
Mr Wamakko (APC) is leading Mr Dan Iya (PDP) with 11,732 votes in Sokoto Central, having scored 114,866 votes to the 79,991 votes scored by the PDP candidate.
A new Nigeria will emerge from the tombs of our seeming helplessness.
Mr Haastrup said the hospital management is very proactive and that the Chief Medical Director (CMD), Mahmud Raji, has directed all heads of departments to take charge.
As you commence your budget process for next year, include feeding of your inmates,” he said.
“We are overwhelmed and filled with joy for the resilience and tenacity shown by the multitude of our good people of Yobe South in giving me a second mandate.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the governor was in Gombe State to inaugurate the construction of 550 housing units and the Gombe Geographic Information Systems (GOGIS) Service Centre.
“To me, the problem is not with Tinubu and the other candidates,’’ he said.
The Kano Zonal Commander of EFCC, Farouk Dogondaji, disclosed this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Kano on Friday.
“It is quite expensive.
But Cahill said this interpretation was “completely incorrect.”
From his remarks, it appears Mr Ekere spoke at his country home in Ikot Abasi, on 18 March, the day for the governorship and state assembly elections, to a correspondent of a national television station.
The suspects have admitted to the crime.
No fewer than two million vulnerable Nigerians have been impacted by projects implemented under the Federal Government’s National Poverty Reduction with Growth Strategy (NPRGS) for the year 2022, a report states.
The decision, Mr Benjamin said, followed a meeting of the management of the board at the end of Tuesday’s sessions,
Commentators have been predicting names of top politicians for juicy appointments in the coming government.
“So I believe my time will not be any different.
In front of a congregation of about 100 world leaders and a television audience of millions, the Archbishop of Canterbury, the spiritual leader of the Anglican Church, slowly placed the 360-year-old St Edward’s Crown on Charles’ head as he sat upon a 14th-century throne in Westminster Abbey.
Up to 93 million people in Africa’s most populous country and biggest economy registered to vote ahead of the 2023 elections.
I am screaming my head off here!
In ground two, the IPOB leader contended that the appellate court erred when it failed to evaluate the evidence led by his legal team.
Lawyers to the defendants – Afam Osigwe, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN); Patrick Agu, Anita Isato, did not oppose Mr Kaswe’s application.
The position of president-general of Ohanaeze Ndigbo rotates among seven Igbo-speaking states in south-east and south-south Nigeria, PREMIUM TIMES gathered.
We believe that the process of the 2023 presidential election is still on,” the Ohanaeze vice-president added.
“It must also be noted that it is only the North-central in the entire country that has not produced the Speaker in 24 years after the return of democracy to Nigeria in 1999.
Mr Ekwo asked Mr Matomi if he had been served.
“The proposal is in tandem with the core mandate of the NDDC.
“We believe that Emeh Nnamdi faces the risk of ill-treatment or extrajudicial execution if he is not released or charged to court immediately.
Mr Lawan paired with Senator Ovie Omo-Agege from the South-south, while Mr Gbajabiamila paired with Idris Wase from the North-central.
In the 52nd minute, Francesco Acerbi escaped a potential red card after the VAR ruled off his attack on Sandro Tonali.
It said situation reports will be constantly compiled and shared with partners to ensure a hitch-free operation.
Journalists were prevented from covering Tuesday’s proceedings of the illicit drug trial of Abba Kyari, a suspended deputy commissioner of police, and others at Court 10 of the Federal High Court, Abuja, venue of the proceeding.
They include a university diploma, Ordinary National Diploma (OND), National Diploma (ND), Nigeria Certificate in Education (NCE), Higher National Diploma (HND) and a university degree.
Is the Nigerian media sector so Obidient-biased to ignore this to the detriment of other political parties and indeed the nation’s peace?
The jury found the defendants guilty of taking the 21-year-old Lagos street trader to London to exploit him for his kidney.
In 2021 alone, a total of 1.9bn was lost in fraudulent bank transactions in eight major Nigerian banks, according to the annual financial reports released by Zenith Bank Plc, Access Bank Plc, Union Bank of Nigeria Plc, Guaranty Trust Bank, Wema Bank Plc, Fidelity Bank Plc, Polaris Bank Plc and Sterling Bank Plc.
He said he neither attacked Miss Thomas nor smashed her phone.
So, he stood up and started shouting at my cousin, saying since he met several people there, he shouldn’t have said anything to the tea seller but wait for his turn.
Group asks APC to zone Reps Speakership to North-central
The statement came amid calls by some politicians for an interim government, which if successfully pushed, will prevent the inauguration of the president-elect, Bola Tinubu, on 29 May.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Mr Agboworin beat his closest contender, Adedapo Lam-Adesina, son of the late former governor, Lam Adesina.
He noted that the party considered the report and adopted it.
They were accused of forging a Supreme Court judgement that recognised Mr Njoku as the national chairman of the party.
The Nigerian government has accused the outlawed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) of being responsible for the deadly attacks in the region.
Both offences carry a minimum of five years and maximum 20 years imprisonment.
Mr Mbadinuju had served as a personal assistant to a former governor of old Enugu State, Jim Nwobodo, between 1979 and 1980, before playing the same role for former Nigeria’s Head of State, Shehu Shagari, between 1980 and 1983
The Lagos State Government has confirmed that a 15-day-old baby has tested positive for Lassa Fever in the state following an earlier confirmation and an ongoing treatment of the baby’s mother at the state-owned Infectious Disease Hospital (IDH), Yaba.
Mr Mamu, who also doubled as the spokesperson of the Kaduna-based cleric, Ahmad Gumi, was arrested by the SSS on 7 September afternoon at the Aminu Kano International Airport in North-west Nigeria upon his arrival from Egypt.
Others include Abraham Evans, Nigeria Police University, Wudil, Kano State, who was elected as Publicity Secretary; Imuetinyan Iguodala-cole of Bingham University, Abuja, was elected the Welfare Officer while Jamilu Bello from Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto was elected as Treasurer.
Five minutes into the game, Theo Hernandez‘s effort went slightly off target to break the silence at San Siro.
“Intend to bring a lot of reforms into the Senate, in the ways and manners we do business, to assist the next administration to succeed.
“This renders the entire hearing of the case by the tribunal a nullity.
Mr Mamman served as the Minister of Power from August 2019 to September 2021, when he was unceremoniously removed from office by President Muhammadu Buhari.
He further asked the court for a declaration that the refusal by the defendant to release the information or record requested amounted to a violation of Section 7 (1) and 4 (a) & (b) of the Freedom of Information Act and the action was illegal and unconstitutional.
NEC is WAEC’s highest decision-making organ that sits on examination matters in Nigeria.
The BBYDI team said it is proud to have Mr Olasupo represent it at the forum.
“I want to say without fear of contradiction that the South-east has no justification to start asking for the Senate Presidency of the 10th National Assembly because it is not part of those who voted for the APC.
Terrorist outlaws, often called bandits, have been active in Nigeria’s North-west and parts of the FCT.
The party is equally challenging Mr Tinubu’s victory on the basis that he was not elected by a majority of lawful votes cast at the election.
P&ID denies any bribery in the gas contract.
‘‘The Plan is a long-term economic transformation blueprint designed to address these challenges,’’ she said.
It also includes Rolex watches, gold bracelets, as well as gold and diamond studded rings and neck chains.
On the whole, I find no merit in the Attorney General’s preliminary objection.
A police officer, Saka Afolabi, who allegedly shot one Ismail Akapo in 2019, has failed to show up in court for trial.
“The FG is asking the Senate to convert 23.7trillion in CBN Overdrafts to a 40-Year Government bond, and the Government is also shopping for 7.5 trillion naira in bilateral loans, treasury bills, and Eurobonds to do deficit financing in the 2023 appropriation act.
“The Federal Government had earlier approved the National Digital Economy policy and strategy for a digital Nigeria.
While Temitope Oriola will assess how professionals who are Indigenous, Black and people of colour fare in Canada’s criminal justice system, his colleague Archeologist Kisha Supernant will explore ways to transform Canada’s heritage policy and practice to ensure Indigenous communities secure the right to their cultural heritage and how it is framed.
The highest position the regions have produced is Deputy Senate President.
Mr Oke identified low childhood TB awareness, stigma, low funding for childhood TB and low index suspicion for childhood TB by healthcare providers, as some of the challenges with the control of the disease in the state.
The bail application was opposed by the federal government through its lawyer, Aderonke Imana, an Assistant Chief State Counsel.
So, no need for me queueing for voting,” Mrs Nwanchor stated.
Commenting on the development, Mr Lawal, in a statement issued by the party’s spokesperson, Kola Olabisi, said it was a pity that the governor was politicising the appointments of principal officers of a citadel of learning.
The governor, who said workers in Edo are the best paid in the country, wondered why the federal and other state governments were yet to increase workers’ salaries.
“Between 2007 and 2008, he also obtained a Postgraduate Certificate in Food Safety and Certificate in Applied Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points (HACCP) from University of Greenwhich and Royal Institute of Public Health, UK,” the university said.
“By working in collaboration with stakeholders in the industry we can ensure that Nigeria maximizes the potential of its gas resources while also reducing its carbon footprint and enhancing energy security.
It is difficult to fathom and indeed unfortunate and regrettable that state institutions have become part of a well calculated, deliberate and orchestrated campaign of calumny by the APC to discredit and delegitimize Mr Peter Obi and compel him to abandon his right to seek redress in court following the outcome of the last election which was adjudged both locally and internationally to have failed to meet any standard of credibility or fairness.
The state chairman of NNPP, Oginni Olaposi, had earlier announced the party’s decision to withdraw the petition.
Man, 22, set ablaze for allegedly stealing android phone
The identity of the kidnappers is unknown.
Zamafara, like most states in the North-west of the country, has been a hotbed of bandits and insurgents who maim, rustle cattle, kill and kidnap people for ransom despite the efforts of the military to curtail their activities.
“We have made a mark.
Already, there are five petitions by some political parties and their presidential candidates challenging Mr Tinubu’s victory at the election petition court situated at the Court of Appeal in Abuja.
“Also, four male occupants of the vehicle, comprising of two civilians and two members of one of the sister security agencies conveying the contraband items were arrested.
Others are Tajudeen Abbas (APC, Kaduna), Aminu Jaji (APC, Zamfara), Ben Kalu (APC, Abia), Muktar Betara (APC, Borno) and Miriam Onuoha (APC, Imo)
In that role, she oversaw new product development, client financial solutions and risk management services.
Probe Presidency officials, ministers, Governor tells EFCC
So why the disparity?” Mr Ajaero queried.
This will no doubt broaden political participation by encouraging our daughters, sisters, aunties, mothers and indeed the girl child….,” she said in the 21 seconds clip seen by PREMIUM TIMES and broadcasted by the Nigerian Television Authority (NTA).
He assured the people of the North-east in particular that Operation Hadin Kai remains resolute and determined in neutralising all vestiges of terrorist elements as well as criminals marauding the North-east and returning total and long lasting peace to the region.
“Fourteen persons were involved in the accident with 12 dead and two seriously injured.
Why APC must zone senate presidency to the North-west – Lawmaker
“ Cloudy atmosphere is expected over the inland states and coastal cities of the South with prospects of morning thunderstorms over parts of Ogun and Lagos State.
He said after a distress call was made to the police at Ibara division, the divisional head, Abayomi Adeniji, sent officers to the scene in collaboration with operatives of the Amotekun Corps to the scene.
“The commissioner of police (in the state) has ordered a manhunt to fish out the assailants and bring them to justice,” he said.
The birds are named after a Nigerian pilot and his wife.
“Nigeria’s executive arm of government has subjugated both the judiciary and the legislative arms of the same government.
The United Nations has extended an invitation to a young Nigerian entrepreneur and social rights crusader, Abideen Olasupo, to speak at its 2023 Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) Youth Forum.
The government cannot regulate religious bodies the same way it does to charities.
MSF said that Burkina Faso is the epicentre of multiple humanitarian crises.
Mr Ibrahim said the competition was aimed at improving learning for spelling and comprehension of concepts, adding that a study guide had been prepared to guide spellers and teach rules of spelling.
Specifically, neither the UK government nor the LP, in its statement, gave clarification on Mr Obi’s offences, when and how he was released, the conditions upon which he was released, the current status of the case against him and other related issues.
“Although these increases are not as pronounced as in other regions, they demonstrate that price stability remains elusive in the South East,” it said.
Soldiers allegedly ‘invade’ ex-army officer’s residence, eject wife, children
of the Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto on Saturday 13 December 2003.
However, the Kano ALGON chairman, Baffa Muhammad, in the statement urged the NNPP to play politics with caution as such an allegation is capable of heating up.
“It is important that all staff of the local governments remain at their duty post as that will ensure completion and commissioning of all ongoing projects for the benefit of our people and a smooth transition process,” the governor stated
The New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP) has withdrawn its petition against the reelection of Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State.
I want to appreciate you and your leadership.
I volunteer to do a Public Due Process review of this transaction for you.
Matthew Hassan Kukah, Catholic Bishop of Sokoto Catholic Diocese, Easter 2023
“According to him (the child), their father chained and locked them in solitary confinement, without food and water for over three months which led to the death of the two siblings but he miraculously survived the ordeal.”
The court had also directed EFCC to make publications in two national dailies for any interested parties to show cause why the order should not be made absolute.
In the South-west the APC candidate also polled 2,279,407
Mr Magawata said Mr Wamakko, a former governor of the state and serving senator, polled 141,448 votes to defeat the candidate of the PDP, Muhammadu Dan’Iya, who scored 118,445 votes.
“In my view, it is pensioners’ funds the 1st defendant (Maina) stole, and some of the pensioners died out of frustration,” Mr Abang said.
Ms Onuoha was first elected into the House in 2015 under the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC).
Another participant, Joy Adegoke, said she was excited to be a part of the programme.
“It will equally lead to massive disruptions and cancellations of our flights across the country today (Wednesday), and that will snowball into the coming days, too.”
Citing some examples, Ohanaeze accused Mr Isiguzoro of making repeated claims in the group’s name, despite not being its secretary-general.
“The government would also suffer revenue losses because smugglers do not pay tax as they operate in the underground economy.
“The Ministry of Transportation in collaboration with the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) has misappropriated the funds designated to promote the development of indigenous ship acquisition capacity, and the Act has not achieved its objectives,” he said.
The day also coincides with World Health Workers Week which runs from 7 to 11 April with the theme “Investing in the Health Work Force.
The NBA NEC meeting was held in Birnin Kebbi, Kebbi State.
“A total of 24.8 million people or 1 out of 8 individuals are experiencing acute hunger this year in Nigeria’s 26 states and the capital, Abuja,” he said.
The president also took note of the fact that during his tenure as a member of the executive committee, Mr Umar assisted Nigeria in many ways, with the hope that in the remaining one year, he will even do more in securing equipment for crimes, border management and counter-terrorism for the country.
We shall not forget these atrocities.
“The facilities and even the personnel are overstretched, but we are coping and providing long term solutions to this challenge.
I advise them to seek out the school of survivors where pertinent lessons still exist for those with sufficient humility to LEARN before MOUTHING!
African leaders, especially the elders (President Buhari), Macky Sall (Senegal) and AU Chairperson Azali Assoumani (Comoros) need to step in.
It said: “We are pleased to report that all passengers and crew on board the aircraft are safe and sound.”
We are in a democracy and citizens have the right to commence a suit on constitutional matters and human rights enforcement cases for the courts to make pronouncements on.
It argued that the ground on which the AA brought its petition “is not meritorious and facts in support of
‘‘MOFI’s mission is to generate strong risk-adjusted returns, contribute to the well-being of Nigerians, and be a trusted steward of our nation’s assets and investments.
She was the pioneer chairperson of NiDCOM, an agency under the federal ministry of foreign affairs.
“Adamawa state police command, on April 4, apprehended a 70-year-old man for raping two minors at Jimeta, Yola North local government area.
“Our women die giving birth not only because health services are unavailable, inaccessible, unaffordable or of poor quality care, but also due to lack of or inadequate human resources at the PHC levels both in numbers and skills mix,” she said.
“The President trusts that the government will continue to develop the boundless resources in the State of the Living Spring, complementing the roles of the government at the Centre on national development and prosperity.”
“That it be determined that all the votes recorded for the 2nd respondent in the election are wasted votes, owing to the non-qualification of the 2nd and 3rd respondents.
The AGILE coordinator in the state, Yewande Adesua, who stressed the importance of the AGILE scheme appreciated the state government for taking up the challenge.
Reps ask FG to suspend planned disbursement of $700 million Cabotage fund
Others confirmed as federal commissioners of RMAFC included; Peter Opara (Imo) Hauwa Umar Aliyu (Jigawa), Rakiya Tanko Haruna (Kebbi).
“Carmen Aristegui stands out for her courageous determination to speak truth to power, despite the risks that doing so carries in a country like Mexico, one of the world’s most dangerous places to be a journalist.
But because of the love they have got for me, and the confidence they have reposed in me, and following my good job and the good performance of the governor, it was easier to sell my candidature to the people.
IPOB is leading the agitation for an independent state of Biafra which it wants carved out from the South-east and some parts of the South-south Nigeria.
It is no longer news that Nigeria’s Maternal Mortality Rate is one of the highest in the world.
Friday’s governorship primary election of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kogi took a dramatic turn on Thursday as the deputy governor, Edward Onoja, stepped down for the state’s Auditor-General, Ahmed Usman-Ododo.
Coming up with an immersive display of their energetic dance steps to ‘Buga’ media personality and actress Bukunmi Adeaga-Ilori popularly known as Kie Kie, and Comic actor and activist Debo Adebowale better Known as Mr Macaroni, put up a show as they stepped up to elevate the crowd in a dance frenzy
At the dinner, Tinubu invited many Nigerian businessmen and others.
”Any attempt to prevent performance of their duties amounts to a breach of the Constitution and a violation of press freedom,” he said.
The 2FA is important because it prevents cybercriminals from stealing, destroying, or accessing your internal data records for their own use.”
The magistrate, Abdulaziz Ismail, however, said based on Section 36 subsection 6 of the constitution, a defendant was entitled to a lawyer and had the right to defend himself.
A multiple award-winning journalist, Mr Akinbajo had his BSc at Obafemi Awolowo University in Nigeria.
Commenting, the Speaker, Mudashiru Obasa (Agege I), who presided over the sitting, agreed with others lawmakers that appointments of such nature without recourse to the House amounted to infractions.
Mr Victor said the officer refused to grant his request to let him see Mr Asadu and speak with him, at least.
Others are retention of proceeds of criminal conduct, use of property derived from an unlawful act, possession of a document containing pretence, and failure to disclose assets.
Team Pathfinider presented a modified pit-latrine system that simultaneously addresses Water, Sanitation and Hygiene and offers users a hygienic and inclusive toilet solution.
The Mo Ibrahim Foundation, the organiser of the annual forum, was established in 2006 with a critical focus on the importance of good governance and leadership for Africa.
The RSF is led by an army general, Mohamed Dagalo, while the Sudanese army is led by another general, Abdel al-Burhan.
This is a dangerous development at a time when the APC led-government and the APC party which have been awarded undeserved and unfair victory should be more concerned in addressing the ethnic and religious frictions unfortunately created by the outcome of the elections.
Also while in Makkah, Mr Buhari hosted some traditional and religious leaders to Iftar dinner (breaking of fast).
Also, Mr Obi’s petition contains a prayer for the cancellation of the presidential election and urged the court to order INEC to conduct a fresh one.
In his lecture, Leo Muoghalu, Dean, Faculty of Environmental Science, Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu University, said human activities had continued to impact more negatively on the environment as the population increases.
“A combination of overconfidence, complacency and bad tactical moves made them lose, plain and clear.
The verification will also include certified Next-of-Kin (NOK) of the deceased ex-staff who were in service between July 2012 and October 2013.
“As a mother, it hurts me so bad thinking about what he did to her and what she went through,” she told PREMIUM TIMES on the phone, even as she cried.
Also, Oba Micah Olaseni-Ajijo, the Ogeleyinbo of Ayetoro, in a statement on behalf of the residents, said the community has made frantic calls to the relevant governments over the sea incursion.
A lack of institutional capacity, resources and ownership stifles progress.
She further described stage performances as a unique tool for entertainment, raising awareness of societal ills as well as teaching morals, especially to young people and children.
The President and his wife have demonstrated good faith.
The programme, dubbed “Report Women!” also mobilises a network of female journalists, who are oriented toward leadership.
Nigerians who migrated to the United States recorded a significant increase in their earnings, a new report by the World Bank has said.
“However, we were equally aware that a good working relationship is desirable and indeed imperative to achieve effective and efficient service delivery to the people.
While recounting some of the successes achieved so far in his reign at the aviation ministry, the Minister said more than 50 per cent of the airlines in the country today were licensed under the Buhari-led administration.
Nigerians want you to ensure that at the minimum, these 7 Bills become part of our laws.
Senior APC lawmakers challenge Tinubu, APC’s consensus for House Speaker
“So the roadmap is gradually coming to 100 per cent completion.
Details of Mr Otedola’s initial 5.5 per cent covert acquisition became public a fortnight ago.
Dissatisfied with the announcement, the candidates of the Labour Party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and others filed their petitions to challenge the victory of the APC and Mr Tinubu.
Justice Madugu, who hinted that he had already closed proceeding on the suit, however, asked Mr Njoku, who was standing in the dock with his co-defendant, what happened.
Labour Party Crisis: Peter Obi, lawmakers-elect, others meet in Asaba – Official
The INEC Chief Returning Officer for Osun, Oluwatoyin Ogundipe, who announced the result on the day after the election, said the PDP candidate scored 403,371 votes to emerge victorious.
“If they claim they have problem with the national leadership of the party, will they also claim that they have problem with the candidates of the party?
The case was before Judge Gower KC.
“SBM also found Chinese workers involved in the Boko Haram conflict in Nigeria’s northeast, with a case of a Chinese smuggler being paid to help a jihadist group move metal ore out of the country.”
After listening to the witness testimony, Justice Omotosho adjourned the matter for continuation to June 14, 2023 and ordered the remand of the defendant in Kuje Correctional Centre.
“So for an exercise, if you are going to give a pass mark, out of 947,000, you have issues in about 60,000 I think it’s a fair share,” he said.
People went to him to plead on my behalf that why are you doing this to Hadiza?
“Following the above, there shall be a special congress to ratify the candidate with the highest number of votes at the gubernatorial primary election in Kogi State scheduled for Saturday, April 15, 2023,” the letter reads.
She said that the alert became necessary following the Annual Flood Outlook (AFO) released by the Nigeria Hydrological Service Agency (NIHSA) and the 2023 seasonal climate prediction by the Nigeria Metrological Agency (NiMET).
The incredible mix of artistes is part of the line-up alongside previously announced performers, including Take That, Lionel Richie, Katy Perry, Andrea Bocelli, Sir Bryn Terfel, Freya Ridings, Alexis Ffrench and a collaboration of five Royal patronages.
With the earnings season for fiscal year 2022 approaching its end and first-quarter financials beginning to be released, it is expected that the momentum of activity in the market will hang on how impressive enough financial results are to impress investors.
It further noted that: “Under your leadership, you transformed the tax administration and compliance landscape in Nigeria.
In 2022, Mr Buhari reappointed her, following the recommendation of some power brokers in the presidency.
We must collectively and at individual levels also educate our youths on the dangers of allowing themselves to be used by desperate individuals, the police commissioner warned.
JAMB said out of the 1,586,765 candidates that indicated an interest in sitting the examination, only 80,166 are now outstanding.
Forbes magazine has named three Nigerians among its 2460 individual billionaires in its 2023 Billionaires list.
The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Sunday declared Nasiru Idris of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as governor-elect of Kebbi State.
NEM Insurance enlarged by 9.6 per cent to end trade at N4.55.
Governor Emmanuel as part of his industrialisation drive, inaugurated in 2017 the St. Gabriel Coconut Factory in Mkpat Enin Local Government Area.
The verdict nullifying some of the provisions of the law was a sequel to a suit filed by a constitutional and human rights lawyer, Emmanuel Ekpenyong.
The group noted that the reported zoning arrangement appears to be a deliberate “act of provocation to the North-central zone which has contributed so much to the success of the APC as a party and to the victory of President-elect Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu.”
The lawmaker said the attackers also burnt houses, farms and stored agricultural inputs, adding that the latest attacks took the death toll to 200 in the past four months.
“I want to sincerely appreciate the over 60 Honourable Members of the House of Representatives who took out time and accompanied me, despite their busy schedule”.
“Please, let the wait be worth it.
The governors of Anambra and Kaduna states, Chukwuma Soludo and Nasir El-Rufai, will Tuesday headline a high-level policy deliberation on pathways for creating a robust and resilient economic future for Nigeria.
The former senators say the joint ticket of Messrs Akpabio and Jibrin would assist the incoming government deliver good governance and democratic dividends to Nigerians
This is contained in a statement issued on Friday and signed by the Director of Information at the Presidential Villa, Abiodun Oladunjoye.
Tinubu’s son revealed as beneficial owner of corruption-tainted London mansion
“The difference between developed countries and the LMIC is high diagnosis.
How new administration can revamp Nigeria’s economy – Agora Policy
I do annual and bi-annual servicing.
In their separate suits marked: FHC/ABJ/CS/556/2023 and FHC/ABJ/ CS/557/2023, Messrs Adeyemi and Abubakar prayed the court to declare as “illegal, unlawful and invalid” the purported “direct primary election” which produced Mr Usman-Ododo as the governorship candidate of the APC for the November election.
But the further expansion will require billions of dollars of investment, and could take decades to come online, by which point global demand will be in decline, as it is predicted to peak by 2040, and possibly earlier.”
The PSC chairman noted that the groundswell of public opinion against the conduct of the abuser was indicative of the love and respect Nigerians had for law enforcement officers.
Ogun rep-elect accused of hitting street hawker with car, assaulting woman for intervening
PT: What is your grouse with the Nigerian government regulating not-for-profit organisations?
So the issue we are trying to cure is brain drain and that in itself, in my opinion…
Senate investigates NDDC budgets over alleged unauthorised expenditure
Others had helmets with POLICE boldly inscribed on them.
“The committee has started working.”
“Just commissioned 10 Firefighting trucks, total cost of over 12Bn Naira.
He said the goal is to make PHC centres more attractive to skilled health workers who tend to prefer urban secondary and tertiary health facilities.
JAMB has also listed certificates acceptable for the registration to include a university diploma, Ordinary National Diploma (OND), National Diploma (ND), Nigeria Certificate in Education (NCE), Higher National Diploma (HND) and a university degree.
He had his daughter, who the court referred to as Susan, in 2001 with his partner, who abandoned him and Susan at two years old.
The Bill seeks to provide a legal framework for protecting personal information and establishing the Nigerian Data Protection Commission for regulating laws on personal information.
“The top 10 countries with the highest-burden account for 60 per cent of global maternal deaths, stillbirths, and newborn deaths, and 51 per cent of the world’s live births,” the report noted.
The Army cautioned the troops to avoid any ugly incident that could tarnish its image and that of Nigeria during their stay in Guinea-Bissau.
In his inaugural speech in 2015, Mr Buhari said his administration would focus on the economy, fight corruption, and provide security.
Three monarchs have so far been installed in this area, but none was from our tribe.
While inaugurating the NMCC, Kabiru Yusuf, NPAN chairperson, encouraged every media organisation in the country to institute a local Ombudsman Board.
This same Emefiele now wants to proceed on study leave when he has some 10 months left of his tenure apparently in a bid to evade rendering accounts.
This approach would counter the ‘divide and conquer’ strategies that global powers will likely use with individual African countries.
“When you have people (traditional rulers, local government chairman, etc.)
Others are; Interim Joint Matriculation Board (IJMB), Joint Universities Preliminary Examination Board (JUPED), NABTEB Advanced National Business Certificate, NABTEB Advanced National Technical Certificate, NABTEB GCE-A’ Level (2015 – 2021), Higher Islamic Studies Certificate by NBAIS, International Baccalaureate and the National Registered Nurse/ Midwife certificates.
The lawmakers resolved to investigate the funds due to the non-provision of mobile telecommunication services to underserved areas despite millions of dollars spent.
This newspaper reported how Mr Obiano was arrested by the EFCC hours after handing over to his successor, Charles Soludo, on 17 March 2022.
Disregard IPOB’s sit-at-home order, police tell Ebonyi residents
Mr Mohammed said that the president lost in his own state, Kastina, in the presidential election.
Beyond claim of Islamophobia, the truth is that Sudan is a fecund ground for tutoring radical thoughts and where potential extremists are incubated.
The estate of a former minister in the defunct Western Region, Gabriel Akindeko, has sued the majority shareholders and directors of a frontline civil engineering and construction firm, Soleh Boneh, over alleged mismanagement of the deceased official’s shares in the company.
He noted that these programmes empowered marginalised groups and remedied much of the nation’s infrastructure deficit.
But on Thursday, Mr Adeleke announced the appointment of new principal officers for the university.
I can’t believe what my eyes are seeing.
We cannot remain in the old dubious path,” Mrs Onochie said.
Chimamanda had pinned her hopes on a possible Obi victory partly on predictions of flawed opinion polls some of which were predicated on statistically negligible and thus unreliable sample sizes and others on no discernible empirical basis whatsoever.
Many Nigerians, including those who live abroad, wait for months to get their passports after completing the application process.
On Sunday, presidential spokesperson Garba Shehu said he was unaware of such study leave.
A factional IPOB leader, Simon Ekpa, has been accused of being behind the sit-at-home orders in the region.
I think everybody knows that.
Mr Adeola said there was an urgent need to carefully look at the 2023 budget estimates of NDDC as clarifications and further information was required on figures presented on the budget.
“We wish to put on record that we are not opposed to the choice of a Muslim Speaker in the 10th Assembly, but we wish to unequivocally demand religious balancing, especially among the two Principal Officers – Speaker and Deputy Speaker.
He said he was never found guilty of any “of the pre-conditions for the removal of a non-executive chairman/director of the 2nd defendant as prescribed in the Petroleum Industry Act, 2021 and/or the Articles of Association of the 2nd defendant or the Companies and Allied Matters Act, 2020”.
The minister noted that N75 per litre will be charged on “beer and stout including all alcoholic beverages and beer not made from malt- whether fermented or not fermented” in 2023, adding that this new excise duty on beer and stout will be increased to N100 per litre in 2024.
Swiftly, on 16 January 2019, an email was sent from the compromised Victim Company B’s email account to another email account of the company requesting a $188,191.50 payment be made to Victim Company B’s supplier.
“You very much feel the pride in the nation,” said Mark Strasshine after the royal coach went by.
“The government should engage with all the agitators in this country, they should sit and meet with the likes of Nnamdi Kanu and co,” he said.
“You can still give me the elements which make up the gratuity even if you don’t know how to calculate it,’’ he noted.
Highlighting the alleged electoral infractions, Atiku accused INEC of – suppression of votes, manipulation of ballots and ballot boxes, manipulation of BVAS machines, manipulation of accreditation and collation, manipulation of election material(s) delivery.
But the Pirkanmaa District Court of Tampere did not agree with them when it ruled a little over a year ago that they had not proven that Mr Massaquoi committed the crimes “beyond a reasonable doubt.”
The supplementary polls have now brought the 2023 elections to a final, fitting conclusion.
He assured that the Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) machines to be used on Saturday were already configured and fully charged.
Used to generate deep fake videos.
The Civil Defence called on people to exercise caution in the coming hours.
Mr Olanipekun said he put a call across to the petitioners’ lead counsel asking how they would proceed in court today.
“The OPSH is shocked that a cleric who should epitomise leadership and good example in all sense could maliciously accuse the military of compromise.
He said that the region would have demanded for the senate president but because of the Muslim/Muslim ticket of the ruling party, they conceded the seat to the South.
She said in Ghana, Kenya and Malawi, where nearly 1.5 million children have received the vaccine through a WHO-coordinated pilot programme, there is a substantial decrease in hospitalisations for severe malaria and a drop in child deaths.
Nigeria’s manufacturing activity pulled off a sharp growth last month, shaking off successive contractions in the two months preceding April.
• Francis Adenigba Fadahunsi Osun East
Ohanaeze, Soludo mourn ex-Anambra governor Mbadinuju
Under the newly introduced taxes, the federal government will charge N75 per litre of beer, stout or wine imported into Nigeria.
He urged the Inspector General of Police, Usman Alkali, to as a matter of urgency sanction the Adamawa State Commissioner of Police for allegedly providing cover for perpetrators of criminal acts against Nigeria’s democracy.
Mr Cole also deleted a congratulatory message he sent to the president-elect via his Twitter handle.
“It is expected that your exemplary conduct and strict adherence to rules and regulations during your assignment will justify the confidence reposed in you by the leadership of the Party.”
“In this regard, Nigerian students from Sudanese universities who are interested in transferring to Egyptian universities are expected to send..."
Also, a popular native doctor from the area, Oguejiofor Okafor otherwise known as Ezedibia, stressed that for any person to be installed as the traditional ruler of the community, he must be crowned by the Okpala Awkuzu and follow traditional processes.
According to Patrick Obahiagbon, secretary of the Kogi APC Primary Election Committee, Mr Usman-Ododo scored 78, 704 votes to beat six other contestants.
The candidates speak on their experiences.
Speaking further about the Nigerian election, Mr Oke said the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is in contempt of a court order authorising Nigerians abroad to vote in elections.
The victim’s parents, according to the statement, told the commissioner that it was out of pity that the girl was sent to live with the suspect because she (the suspect) recently delivered twins and was finding it difficult caring for the twins alone.
According to the statement, the trucks would be deployed to the Murtala Muhammed Airport, Lagos, Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja, and Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport, Kano respectively.
“It is therefore essential that antibiotics only be prescribed – and that last-resort antibiotics be reserved – for patients who truly need them.
The IPI-IMS World Press Freedom Hero award will be presented together with the IPI-IMS Free Media Pioneer award during a special ceremony on May 25, 2023, in Vienna as part of IPI’s annual World Congress.
The association also condemned the controversial bill seeking to compel medical and dental practitioners to practise for five years before relocating abroad, noting that such would rather escalate the challenge of brain drain in the health sector.
“Tribesman is such an outdated and strange expression and I also said something about that whoever is using it.
Sedition not only covers a person’s actions but also any words or writings in print that may incite, encourage or promote the overthrowing of a government.
CSP OLUMUYIWA ADEJOBI, mnipr, mipra
In the footage, shared widely on social media and TV channels, his last words were in response to whether he attended his son’s funeral.
He also added that the state is collaborating with the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) to strengthen disease surveillance, response, and management in the state.
However, as I said earlier, the Sudanese and Ukrainian crises have offered a veritable opportunity to interrogate some of the schooling Nigerians undertake abroad.
Following the ribbon-cutting ceremony, President Buhari, accompanied by the Permanent Secretary of the State House, Tijjani Umar, will embark on a guided tour of the hospital.
But the implementation of these programmes has equally generated ripples in the public sphere amid allegations of fraud and discrepancies in the allocation of the funds to targeted beneficiaries.
Mr Wabote made the recommendation at the NDDC Public-Private Partnership Summit 2023 held in Lagos on Tuesday.
12:50pm: Wole Olanipekun, Mr Tinubu’s lawyer, informs court that his client has filed his answers to the pre-hearing questions.
Earlier on Wednesday, the court dismissed a petition by the Action Peoples Party (APP).
Moses Nnegedu, a resident of Nyanya, said if CBN was serious to accomplish its goal of the circulation of the new naira notes before the deadline, it would monitor the commercial banks.
While the NWC meeting was ongoing, a group of APC members staged a protest at the entrance of the party’s national secretariat, demanding the inclusion of the North-central in the zoning formula.
Speakership: ‘You must be loyal to PDP’, party chair tells Reps-elect
Read the full statement by the APC
UPDATED: WAEC announces date for commencement of 2023 examination
Although those challenges are perhaps somewhat different from those addressed by the 18th-century founders, I know that you will bring to your membership the same penetrating independent insight and analysis those scholars epitomized and envisioned many years ago.”
He described the petition by the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as “a gross abuse of court processes” and that it should not be entertained by the court.
Mr Babatola directed the joint operations team to track down fleeing members of the kidnap gang to ensure that they did not re-group.
The regulatory body said this on Monday through its Director-General, Mrs Mojisola Adeyeye, a pharmacist and professor.
Senators in their contributions supported the motion and voted to approve the prayers when they were put to voice vote by Senate President Ahmed Lawan.
Mr Rabiu expressed confidence in Mr Wigwe’s ability to lead the Council towards new heights, citing his vast experience and keen understanding of the global financial landscape as key assets.
A five-member of the court headed by Haruna Tsammani adjourned the suit until Wednesday, 10 May, after it entertained some preliminary issues from Mr Obi’s legal team led by Livy Uzoukwu, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN).
“For the two polling units, 3,014 ballot papers have been supplied.
Ikechukwu Erojikwe, the convener of the conference and a senior lecturer at the Department of Theatre and Film Studies, UNN, disclosed this in Nsukka on Monday while briefing reporters on how to commemorate the 220 years when Igbos who were forcefully taken to the United States for slavery, known as ‘Igbo Landing’.
TB deaths in the region fell by 26 per cent between 2015 and 2021.”
In addition, the NBS said the total customer numbers in Q4 2022 stood at 11.06 million from 10.94 million in Q3 2022, showing an increase of 1.10 per cent.
He stated that the panel could not get evidence to back up the “rumour” on the allegation, stressing that the committee could not even link the purported oil to Nigeria.
JAMB announced it would close the registration portal on Saturday, 13 May, after a one-week extension.
It said if WHO eventually recommends it, “Gavi and UNICEF could begin funding and procuring doses immediately to protect children across Africa as soon as possible.”
In the 2007 and 2011 elections, the PDP remained nationally dominant although the AD had been rebranded into the Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) and regained control of the South-West while the Congress for Progressive Change (CPC) and the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) had emerged as powerful regional political parties in the far North and South-East respectively.
“He was caught red handed displaying his voters sheet where he did not vote for the party governorship candidate, rather he voted for the candidates contesting the State Assembly elections.
The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) on Tuesday said it does not and cannot “track” nor “leak” telephone conversations of anyone.
Tajudeen Lawal, the APC acting chairman in the state, described the sacking of the principal officers of the university as reckless.
Other confirmed panellists at the event are Aigboje Imoukhuede, former CEO of Access Bank; Shubham Chaudhuri, World Bank’s country director for Nigeria; and Zainab Usman, director of the Carnegie Africa Programme.
The Chairman of the company, Saleh Ibrahim, said the idea was conceived by some elites in the state to rescue onion and garlic farmers from their perennial post-harvest losses.
They pleaded justification by insisting that their article was substantially true, and qualified privilege in that their reportage was done in the public interest.
Within two years of the Buhari administration, exports more than doubled from the 2015 records.
“Now, in respect of current realities in this time which requires sensitive leadership in the Senate in the moulds of: A focused Leadership, A Leadership that is people’s centric and calm and supportive.
A member of the House of Representatives, Solomon Maren, says over 100 persons have been killed by terrorists in Plateau State within the last 48 hours.
Hajiya Fatima Kwaku, MFR – ALTERNATE CHAIRMAN
The commission has deployed all sensitive materials to all the constituencies where supplementary elections have been indicated.
Two Nigerian journalists convicted of defaming an agro-allied company in Kwara State have vowed to challenge the judgement and have it overturned by a higher court.
“I am a believer of demystification of governance meaning let government ad governance be out in the open.
It added that the anaemic outlook reflects the tight policy stances needed to bring down inflation, the fallout from the recent deterioration in financial conditions, the ongoing war in Ukraine, and growing geo-economic fragmentation.
The victim is her relative.
He added that various approved events for the week would commence from Monday, 22 May.
‘‘All these unicorns in Nigeria attained this position during this administration.
Mrs Ademola-Olateju, however, said the state government had engaged the farmers many times and discussed plans to settle those who farm on government land on 100 hectares in modern, organised farming.
He said other states would also have similar projects carried out either by the current I-GP or new ones coming.
Dino Melaye doesn’t have what it takes to be governor – Wike
No, there must have been a conversation.
The minister said the second memo had to do with the provision of towage services at the ports.
Responding to Atiku’s petition, Mr Tinubu argued that the entire petition constituted an abuse of processes of court.
“With the huge and tremendous technological advances and developments in Nigeria and beyond, including the current trend by this court towards embracing electronic procedures, virtual hearing and electronic filing, a departure from the rules to allow a regulated televising of the proceedings in this matter is in consonance with the maxim that justice must not only be done, but must be seen to be done.
Mr Mohammed referred the opposition to the conclusion by Johnnie Carson, a US diplomat, that the APC candidate “undoubtedly won the polls”.
“If we can complete those of the opposition, there is no reason why we cannot complete our own initiated projects, Mr Namadi said.
CJID, CIPE set to train journalists, CSOs on tracking ‘corrosive, constructive capital inflows’ to Nigeria
He alleged that the election in the polling units was marred by overvoting, failing to comply with the provisions of the Electoral Act by not using the Bimodal Voters Accreditation System (BVAS) machines.
“Some of us are paid N5,000 monthly, others receive N10,000 while those we call wreckers are paid N15,000 a month; we just want them to give us our money before they leave office,” she said.
And since the ad-hoc committee was set up, there has been peace,”
She said concerted efforts to eradicate the disease will yield positive results, noting that in 2021, because of the joint actions by malaria-affected countries and partners, malaria deaths decreased compared to 2020 despite the consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic.
The separatist group later suspended the order, in preference for it to be implemented only the days Mr Kanu appears in court.
NEC then received the NSIA reports and approved Management prayers thus:
Mr Buhari highlighted the key role Nigerian youths played during the elections as well as in support of national development.
The plaintiffs also said, “The fine is arbitrary and unlawful and would have a disproportionate and chilling effect on the work of other broadcast stations and journalists and Nigerians.”
“The workshop will create a platform for journalists, CSOs, government and seasoned experts in the sector to exchange knowledge and experiences, and network with other like-minded professionals,” he said.
One of the POS agents who gave his name as Anthony said, at the peak of the cash crunch, they used to “buy” naira in the local market at 25 per cent and sell at between 35 and 40 per cent.
He, therefore, warned schools that the UTME is not a school-based examination.
The Federal High Court in Abuja recently nullified eight controversial sections of the Companies and Allied Matters Act (CAMA) 2020.
This Survival Fund has provided grants (Payroll Support, Artisan and Transport Sector grants, and General MSME grants) to more than 1.2 million beneficiaries, since the last quarter of 2020.
The government empathised with affected Nigerians adding that maintaining order amidst the desperate situation remains crucial to getting all interested Nigerians out of the war zone in record time before the expiration of the ceasefire, which has been extended by 72 hours.
For that, Carmen Aristegui is a true Press Freedom Hero.”
The committee also assured them that there were plans to secure placement for them to continue with their education in their respective courses in Nigeria with the support of the Ministry of Education.
12:45pm: Mr Obi’s lawyer, Livy Uzoukwu, informs the court that he filed answers to questions raised in his client’s petition.
There were no gunshots or violence so far witnessed at the polling unit as reported in the social media,” he said.
12:11pm: Court adjourns APP’s petition until Wednesday, 10 May for continuation of hearing of the petition.
Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
Distinguished Fellow of the Federal College of Education, Abeokuta.
He added that the troops were taken through crosscutting issues like sexual exploitation and abuse, conflict-related sexual violence, conduct and discipline as well as protection of civilians amongst others.
Mr Akpabio and the deputy senate president hopeful have, however, ignored the criticisms from their opponents and continued with their consultations.
Global X Management had $40 billion in assets under management as of October 2021.
We won all the votes here.
The Federal High Court, Abuja, has warned against further delays in the suit filed by the leader of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu, against the State Security Services (SSS).
But in opposition to Mr Ozekhome’s requests, the lawyer to the Nigerian government, Tijjani Gazali, also a SAN, argued that the SSS detention centre has adequate resources to attend to Mr Kanu’s health needs.
Mr Raji, who urged the court to grant their reliefs, said the motion was filed in the interest of justice.
The APC and INEC are therefore advised to halt further steps to hinder the ability of the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal to dispense justice in the matter in accordance with the law.
PREMIUM TIMES had exclusively reported the Swiss humanitarian organisation’s financial crisis following an apparent inability to implement an estimated field budget of 2.5 billion CHF (($2.7 billion) for 2023, the largest ever, due to funding shortfalls.
Two groups, on Sunday, rejected the reported adoption of a zoning arrangement by the president-elect and the party, saying it is a clear marginalisation of the North-central region.
Among other reasons, the minister referred to the administrative atrocities committed by the woman in the office, including the indiscriminate sack of directors, making unilateral decisions, neglecting critical official duties, creating disaffection among staff and tuning the government agency into a toxic workplace.
The notion of Reconciliation was clearly N/A – Non Applicable.
The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has called on Nigerian workers to be optimistic that the court’s decision on the petition challenging the victory of Bola Tinubu in the presidential election will favour the party.
The demolition exercise began after an eviction notice was served to the “illegal occupants who had constructed makeshift buildings, some of which were constructed right under high-tension cables running through the area,” a report posted on the state’s website on Tuesday said.
The statement offers assurance to consumers who have been exposed to a series of misleading publications that the product was banned by the regulator.
It has become like a culture that if you don’t come and celebrate your boss, you are that bad person and not loyal.
However, another group, Defenders of Constitutional Democracy (DCD) lauded the arrangement and called for support for the North-west.
He revealed that the council also approved digitisation of the ministry’s operation at the cost of N916 million and would be implemented in 12 months.
“This conversation on forced slavery will tell the story of the heroic deeds of our forebears, while the exhibition will preserve, promote and document this historical monument of our history.”
In England and Wales, 64 per cent of lawyers in the public sector are women, of which 57 per cent hold the most senior positions.
This, she said, will enable the commission have a reliable data on police personnel in Nigeria.
The ministry made this known in a statement issued Monday by its Head, Press and Public Affairs, Odutayo Oluseyi.
It also obtained an order reminding Mr Kanu pending the determination of its appeal by the Supreme Court.
This way, we will overcome and triumph over our challenges and fears.”
"Buhari has empowered and emboldened the Fulani pastoralists in their expansionist agenda including killings…..”
However, the federal government asked the Court of Appeal to stay the execution of the judgment freeing Kanu, pending the resolution of an appeal it filed at the Supreme Court.
Others are: remodeling of the multipurpose sports hall and conference room as well as construction of corner shops, and a gym at 1006 officers’ quarters.
Out of the total 4,227 people kidnapped, 2,606 were men and 1,395 were women while the remaining 226 were minors.
PRESIDENT BUHARI SADDENED BY KILLING OF US EMBASSY STAFF, POLICEMEN AND OTHERS IN PLATEAU AND BENUE STATES
Mr Ugwuoke, a former coordinator of Joint Intelligence Fusion Cell of Operation Hadarim Daji in Zamfara State, disclosed this while speaking with reporters in Enugu on Wednesday.
He charges media professionals to continue to be patriotic, work for the cohesion of the country, and exercise their freedom with a high deal of responsibility.
The district court for Northern Illinois has set 11 July for his sentencing.
This phase of the hearings comes to an end with one major concerning issue: the Sierra Leonean did not approve the hearings on its soil, thus forcing the Court to hear nearly all the witnesses in Liberia.
The Federal High Court in Abuja had earlier set aside the first primary election of the party due to similar complaints of irregularities in the conduct of the primary election.
Victory in two out of the six geopolitical zones cannot give any candidate victory in a presidential election in Nigeria.
No fewer than 80 officers and men of the Nigerian Immigration Service (NIS) are on trial for indulging in the collection of illegal fees for the issuance of new passports and renewal of old ones.
He congratulated Mr Akpabio as the next senate president.
Military destroys 50 illegal refining sites in Niger Delta – DHQ
Unlike COVID-19, the Lassa fever awareness rate has been low, as it silently claims lives and affects health workers.
The three people, according to the newspaper, were killed during an exchange of gunfire between security agents and irate youths in the area.
“The case was transferred to the Homicide Section of the State Criminal Investigation Department Enugu, where investigation into the case was consolidated, concluded and the suspect arraigned and remanded accordingly for further hearing,” he said.
“The laws of the House of Assembly have statutory provisions that nominees of the governor must appear for confirmation.
Haruna Abdullahi (Kurfi Tigers Academy)
They also picked Mr Abbas (North-west) and Ben Kalu (South-east) as speaker and deputy speaker.
Following the death of his mother, Queen Elizabeth II in September last year, he became King and head of state of the United Kingdom and 14 other countries.
3V111/86 was a violation of the CAMA law under which NNPCL was incorporated.
The four sides sealed their places following the conclusion of the quarter-final matches at the U17 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) on Thursday.
“She was there and then rushed to hospital for medical attention but was confirmed dead by the doctor on duty,” Mr Oyeyemi said.
Apart from the more prominent cases filed by the PDP and the Labour Party, Mr Tinubu grapples with the third case filed by the All Peoples Movement (APM).
NAN reports that the traffic regulatory agencies allowed vehicles that were already on the Carter Bridge to be evacuated through the earlier diversion created.
The secessionist group is leading the agitation for an independent state of Biafra which it wants to be carved out from the South-east and some parts of South-south Nigeria.
Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar has arrived at the Presidential Election Petition Court in Abuja for Thursday’s hearing of his petition seeking to overturn Bola Tinubu’s victory.
The centrality of the media to Multi-Track Diplomacy is such that cannot be over-emphasised with the other tracks feeding it and even feeding on it to enable proper functioning in mitigation of conflicts.
Labour Party Crisis: State chairpersons insist Abure remains national chairman
I eventually found where it came from.”
In court documents seen by PREMIUM TIMES, the tribunal judge, Abigail Mcgregor, held that Mr Fagbewesa owned the cigarettes that were seized from his bags and subsequently upheld the penalty.
So, it is a gradual thing.
“The aviation ministry wants to destroy buildings in the sector for a road map that isn’t approved by Lagos State and even the approved one in Abuja hasn’t been done; so what is the point,’’ he queried.
When we are distant from God, we are exposed to danger and fear.
The KONGONET chairman also appealed to the state and federal governments, and the international community to provide a “Safe Keep” accommodation in the state where victims of such acts could be accommodated during the duration of the case.
“Council approved the president’s memo for the reimbursement of funds spent by Borno on federal road projects in the sum of N16.8 billion.
“The main cause of the crash was attributed to brake failure, which resulted to loss of control.”
“When you go home, pray for me.
He said that there was a need to implement projects in institutions within security-prone areas to enhance the security of the students and teachers.
The government also introduced a Green Tax by way of excise duty on Single Use Plastics (SUPs) including plastic containers, films and bags at the rate of 10 per cent.
The magistrate clarified that “each of the convicts is to pay a fine of N100,000 only for the offences of conspiracy and defamation respectively, having been convicted.”
Governor Sanwo-olu announced the delivery of the first set of electric buses for the Lagos State mass transit scheme.
Mr Freeman, also Permanent Representative of Israel to ECOWAS, made this known on Tuesday in Abuja, against the backdrop of the awareness campaign on importance of “Earth Day,” celebrated globally on April 22, every year.
He claimed it was time to help Nigerian vice-chancellors who feel ashamed of their actions since, despite their education, they allowed greedy politicians to use them as pawns.
Meanwhile, the police have reacted to the development, even as its official confirmed the receipt of a letter over the matter.
“I want to recognize the impact this decision has on the lives of those individuals.
The film says Wojtyla protected perpetrators by transferring them.
Mr Gaya obliged, which resulted in a debit of N169,000 from his bank account.
“Nigerians cherish democracy.
“It is not a good use of resources for the House of Representatives to spend all of its time on establishment bills.
Kidnapping for ransom has become a common occurrence in many parts of Nigeria despite the efforts of security agencies.
Mr Sylva was governor of the state between 2007 and 2011 on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).
The denial was contained in a statement by the commission’s spokesperson, Festus Okoye, who accused an unnamed candidate in the election of making the allegations.
In December, there was a mild drama in the Senate over the consideration of the report, prompting the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, to step down the report.
The Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) of the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport (NAIA), had issued travel advisories to travellers urging them to make contingency plans to avoid missing their flights and appointments due to the workers’ strike.
The NBC can shut down broadcasting stations that fail to comply with its sanctions.
Mr Rhodes-Vivour and Labour Party, through their counsel, Olagbade Benson, had informed the tribunal that Mr Sanwo-Olu evaded service of the petition on him by the court’s bailiff.
The Presidency says both leaders expressed satisfaction on security matters.
The incoming First Lady, Remi Tinubu, arrived in the country on Monday with her husband, the President-elect, Bola Tinubu, after about a month’s vacation abroad.
As a party, we will go back to the drawing board ahead of 2027 and we hope to get it right,” he said.
Meanwhile, the LP has denied media reports that the UK government had apologised to Mr Obi over his “arrest”, “detention” and “harassment” at the London airport as claimed by his party in the statement, Mr Obi has yet to speak on his ordeal in London.
A Facebook user posted a video clip of the teenager being interrogated by some residents, who were visibly outraged by the incident.
The party chairman also alleged plans to hijack the petition by some powers that be within the party at the national level.
“During the second half of the twentieth century, both countries made concerted efforts to curb rapid population growth through policies that targeted fertility levels.
Finally, Murray stated that he often transported undeclared cash on international business trips for ICIL, sometimes as much as $50,000 in a shoulder bag, including on one trip in 2008 that he said took him from Nigeria, “probably through London”, to Ukraine.
According to him, those seeking to upturn the victories at the tribunal are simply wasting their time and resources.
PREMIUM TIMES, in April, reported that gunmen killed five police officers and a couple in Ulakwo, a community in Ngor Okpala Local Government Area of the state.
The Embassy of Nigeria in Cairo, Egypt, is to facilitate the transfer of Nigerian students from Sudanese universities to Egyptian universities.
“He couldn’t defend himself,” Mr Victor added.
When CPJ sent him records of journalists slain in Nigeria, he said he would “review” them and then said, “Our conclusion is based on your reports as released.
He said they bought the cash from fishers in the area to sell to their customers.
Members of the team include Governor Charles Soludo of Anambra State and the Executive Secretary of the National Action Committee on the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) and former head of the Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NEPC), Olusegun Awolowo.
He won his first election as an independent candidate and became a state lawmaker in 1989.
APC dissolves presidential campaign council despite call for rerun by Atiku, Obi
There are simply no issues to reconcile between those two entities and myself.
Mr Mamu, who is accused of receiving ransom from families of the victims of the train attack on behalf of the terrorists, was arrested by Interpol in Cairo, Egypt, on behalf of the Nigerian government on 6 September 2022.
A UK court will pronounce sentence on Mr Ekweremadu, his wife, Beatrice, and a Nigerian doctor, Obinna Obetta, on 5 May for organ trafficking.
Mrs Binani of the APC and Governor Ahmadu Fintiri of the PDP are the two main contestants in the election with Mr Fintiri leading before Saturday’s supplementary election in 69 polling units.
In any case, the Electoral Act provides for aggrieved parties in elections to seek redress through the judicial process and that is currently under way.
The Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Godwin Emefiele, said the project was supported by the apex bank because of the impact of insecurity on agriculture.
How to calculate a safe period to avoid pregnancy?
But rejecting the call, the Court of Appeal noted: “…the Judge did not err in categorising the offending; the real issue was whether he was justified in elevating the starting point of 13 years to a custodial term of 15 years after balancing the various aggravating and mitigating factors that he identified.”
“The custodial centres were frighteningly centres for contracting diseases like scabies and tuberculosis, among others.
Mr Wase said five of the aspirants have resolved to work together to oppose the APC’s consensus arrangement.
He said upon considering the nature of the offence on the charge sheet before the court and the fact that Mamu did not rebut the allegation of breach of terms of bail, he was persuaded by the grounds given by the DSS for the court not to exercise discretion to grant bail as prayed by Mr Mamu.
He therefore appealed to the newly elected labour leaders in the state to support the state government in its efforts to improve on the wellbeing of workers and the citizens of the state.
Mr Onyeizu, while condemning people’s negative behaviour towards the environment, said “your local action has a global effect.”
Net fees and commission marginally declined by 6.6 per cent, following a drop in credit-related fees and commission.
But the government has since said nothing on the matter, leading to anxiety in the kingdom.
NAN reports that the Senate South-East Caucus, on 7 May urged the APC to zone the Senate Presidency of the 10th Assembly to the region for fairness and justice.
This is in support of Executive Order 001 on Transparency and Efficiency of public service delivery to the business environment as well as ReportGov.ng, the Council’s feedback mechanism.”
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the troops of the Nigerian Company 8 ECOWAS Mission in the Gambia (NIGCOY 8 ECOMIG), began the pre-deployment training on 3 April.
“On 3 May 2023, we received a report of this case through our toll-free line and acted promptly by referring the child for medical and psychosocial support.
It said the FIRS has done well in recent times by increasing revenue generated from N6.4 trillion in 2021 to N10.1 trillion in 2022, thereby crossing N10 trillion in revenue for the first time.
An aspirant for the 10th Assembly House of Representatives Speakership, Muktar Betara (APC, Borno), on Monday held a meeting with some members-elect in Saudi Arabia.
The minister commended the management and staff of the Nigerian Correctional Service (NCoS) for working hard to keep the virus away.
“Try and keep solving problems.
“Whatever they choose to do, as at now, the matter is completely dead.
The state Commissioner for Environment, Ola Oresanya, on Wednesday, visited the affected areas to assess the situation.
They have been rescheduled to take the examination on Saturday, 6th May, he said.
The properties linked to the ex-JTF commander are located in Bayelsa and Abuja.
They brought some witnesses from Lofa, who claimed that Mr Massaquoi ordered his soldiers to rape and burn women on allegations of supporting rebels from the Liberians Untied for Reconciliation and Democracy, who were fighting Taylor’s forces.
The judge, Inyang Ekwo, refused to grant the application, and instead asked the applicant, Omotuyi Ademola, to put the defendant, the National Population Commission (NPC), on notice.
Last week, he and his family officially moved out of their residence at Aso Rock Presidential Villa into a place called the Glass House, also within the precinct of the Villa.
Mr Kanu allegedly ordered whoever flouted the order should “write his/her will”, and as a result banks, schools, markets, shopping malls, and fuel stations domiciled in the eastern states of Nigeria must not open for business.
Mrs Fagbemi said the land was acquired by the defunct Western Region and designated as an industrial area.
Malami unveils memoir weeks to end of tenure as AGF
“Sub-Saharan Africa and Central and Southern Asia are the regions experiencing the largest numbers of deaths, although, across all regions, there is variation regarding the pace at which countries are progressing in their efforts to achieve the global 2030 targets.
The president reiterated his position to be guided by the vows he took to keep Nigeria united, prosperous and secure.
Reports indicate that results from 10 out of the 20 local government areas had been declared while the exercise was adjourned till 11 a.m on Sunday.
While we must not rest on our oars tonight, let us take a moment to relish our accomplishments so far and leave here tonight renewed and reenergized for the work that lies ahead.”
However, counsel to the EFCC, Fredrick Dibang, argued that the court has jurisdiction to prosecute the offence, noting that the law enacted by the state Assembly is contrary to the Act of the National Assembly that established the EFCC.
Official of petroleum regulatory commission abducted in Akwa Ibom
Gunmen abduct undergraduate student in Enugu
“He joined the Forum in high spirit, easily associating with his colleagues, displaying so much confidence in the progressive ideals of our Party (PDP) and the resolute stance of our Forum in rebuilding our country,” he said.
“They probably think they are more human than the rest of us.
“MIDAS is a global real-time border management system developed by International Organization for Migration (IOM) and is linked to INTERPOL & other watchlists.
“We also plan to establish an Assembly Plant for Electric Buses in the near future.”
In this difficult time for the families of those killed, the American Embassy and the Nigeria Police Force, NPF, I extend the nation’s condolences over the very sad incident,” the Nigerian leader was quoted as saying by his spokesperson Garba Shehu.
He said: “The United States and @SecBlinken know you and Peter Obi are behaving like Donald Trump in America: refusing to accept your obvious defeat and relying on propaganda to deceive the world.
When the case was called on Tuesday, Mr Oyedepo announced an appearance for the prosecution, and informed the court of the appellate court’s decision, directing that the case be transferred to the Abuja division of the court.
He further explained how important the paper was for him to wake up at 5 am on a public holiday.
There will be pressure.
He said the minister of labour and employment has been in touch with the leadership of organised labour, led by Joe Ajaero and had briefed them on the developments.
In April last year, the government approved 12 new private universities that brought the figure to 111.
On the witness stand, Neil Murray, an Irish businessman who used to take on jobs for P&ID, admitted that he had obtained access to privileged government documents between 2010 and 2013.
Themed: “Harnessing Alternative Feed Resources for Sustainable Animal Feed Supply,” the summit is scheduled to hold between 11 and 12 April in Abuja, Nigeria’s Federal Capital Territory.
Another 16 hospitals, including in Darfur states, could close soon due to staff fatigue and lack of supplies.
“It was a very happy mood.
Mr Ogundeji had been controversially removed as deputy speaker at the time.
The report identified two oil giants – Shell Petroleum Development Company and Eni as being responsible for the major pollution in the state.
• Benson Friday Konbowei Bayelsa Central
IPI Nigeria inaugurates crucial committees on press freedom, media professionalism
He was also charged with assault against police officers, conspiracy and disturbance of public peace.
“As a multi-ethnic, multi-cultural and multi-religious country, it is urgent and imperative that the APC promotes the tenets of Federal Character by zoning the Speakership to the South-east and strengthen the cords of unity and peaceful co-existence amongst our peoples.”
He is the Chairman of the House Committee on Navy.
“I must also remind you that the rules of engagement in the mission give you the latitude to exhibit utmost professionalism in the discharge of your responsibilities.
The President-elect, Bola Tinubu, has praised Ayo Adebanjo for his contributions to progressive good governance in Nigeria over several decades.
However, the CFR is said to be lower than what was recorded for the same period in 2022 which was 19.1 per cent.
Mr Mohammed then made a false claim against PREMIUM TIMES, saying, “Of course, Premium Times has its own agenda.
This is coming barely 24 hours after the commission barred Mr Ari from its premises in Adamawa and ordered the Administrative Secretary in the state, Adamu Gujungu, to take over INEC activities in Adamawa.
Insulating or protecting what we do as government officers allow us to continue or imbibe the culture of impunity.
If we do not go to work, we must not get our full salary.
Buhari sacks engineering agency boss
After listening to the briefs, President Buhari said whatever Nigeria has achieved today is due to the power of its democracy and the power of our institutions, which must continue to be strengthened.
The Federal Government through the National Social Safety Nets Project has built the National Social Register (NSR) as a national planning asset, which holds the identity of its poor and vulnerable households across the length and breadth of Nigeria.
“You should have greeted him from afar,” he said.
Mr Jibrin, a retired major general, said Mr Sylva secured 52,061 to defeat five other contestants.
Mr Lukman’s argument is based on performance at the presidential election.
Mr Putin is expected to attend the summit and as a signee to the ICC, South Africa is expected to detain Russia’s president but would most likely not and has now moved to announce its intention to exit the court.
FGC Land Crisis: FG, El-Rufai clash as ministry writes police
The governor says he might reverse the decision.
Those foreign funds were lying in my accounts until my appointment as a Minister later in 2019 and formed part of my assets declaration.
The Public Relations Officer of the University, Abiodun Olarewaj, stated this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), on Wednesday, in Ile-Ife.
In a most convincing reconfirmation of the previous rating of the three during the presidential election, Peter Obi’s Labour Party (LP) won the governorship seat in only one out of the 33 states available for elections.
Mr Gide had in June, 2021 invaded FGC Yauri in Kebbi State and abducted over 100 students and teachers.
Now, many people, especially from the Federal Ministry of Justice, see fundamental rights as rights that are redundant.
Among them were diplomats and citizens from Saudi Arabia, Bulgaria, Canada, Qatar, Kuwait, Egypt, Tunisia, the United Arab Emirates, India, Pakistan, Burkina Faso, and the Philippines, according to the Saudi Foreign Ministry.
The APC transition team led by Mike Iordye in a statement issued on Tuesday lamented that Mr Ijohor reneged on his promise to get government Ministeries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) to brief it with handover reports.
“While that was ongoing, the Central Bank of Nigeria created a window for states to develop commodities that is useful for import substitution.
“We are aware that the governor has been working so hard to paint a false perception of the collapse of the APC structure in Rivers State even when he had in previous well-documented interviews vowed never to have anything to do with a “cancer party (APC),” Mr Nwauju said.
It added that it is recommending widespread use of the vaccine, “among children in sub-Saharan Africa and in other regions with moderate to high plasmodium falciparum malaria transmission.
The House also ordered the immediate return of salaries and remunerations enjoyed by the affected officials pending their appearances before the House.
34 false statements made to cover up other crimes, these are felony crimes in New York State no matter who you are, we cannot and will not normalise serious criminal conduct.”
Expert asks INEC to obey Disability Act in deployment of ad hoc staff for elections
In her remarks, the Executive Director of WSCIJ, Motunrayo Alaka, emphasised that the investigative stories that would be produced by fellows will spotlight the leadership status of women in newsrooms and media organisations and the inclusion of more female experts as sources for news.
Mr Keyamo shared a 14-seconds-long video clip on 20 April showing him in a white hoodie and sneakers in front of an apartment.
The late APC chieftain was the chairman of the party support group in the area – Achievers Group in Agbarho.
“There are still issues in local areas where Wurkanawa are being attacked by the Karimjo people.
He called on stakeholders saddled with the responsibility of granting building approvals in the FCT, like the Department of Development Control, Department of Engineering Services and other agencies, to ensure that they give proper approval and monitored constructions in all locations.
However, we remain united as one caucus of the opposition parties,” he said.
The Executive Chairman, Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS), Muhammad Nami, has been named winner of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN) Merit Award.
According to him, “The offence, which the second defendant was found guilty, convicted and pardoned is not the same as the case pending before the court.
In the next 10 years, he emerged as a person who had a strong influence in the western part of Allahabad city.
“Those alleging that I will be stooge or rubber stamp of the outgoing Speaker, Gbajabiamila, and President-elect, Sen. Bola Tinubu, are either ignorant of my antecedent or they are being mischievous,” he said.
So Pretoria is again toying with the idea of pulling out of the ICC.
“It is not good enough to hijack the popular mandate of the people through the courts.
Mr Mohammed said it is hypocritical for the Western world to claim it is fighting terrorism yet turn around to be supporting a terrorist organisation.
Iwuanyanwu is new president-general of Ohanaeze
Mrs Akin-Olugbade is a graduate of the Université Paris-Dauphine in France, where she obtained a masters’ degree in applied economics.
He urged the government to follow due process and give the farmers enough time to harvest their crops.
Mr Izunaso, a former National Organising Secretary of the APC, stated that he has served the party to be given the opportunity.
The slain officer, who travelled to his community for the Easter holiday, was abducted from his home.
Mr Okafor said farmers need more irrigation and water pumps to be able to produce more feed for both humans and livestock sustainably.
According to Mr Ale the patient who recently had a child, developed a fever in Akure, Ondo State, and was treated for malaria but her condition deteriorated from “abdominal pain to chest pain and her oxygen level dropped.”
“Omo, see as him dey cut-am with cutlass!
“She added that the Nigerian mission in Egypt has been working tirelessly on this as the Egyptian authorities are insisting on visas by fellow Africans to transit back to their countries,” Mr Odu said.
Mr Ozekhome blamed the federal government for the delay in hearing the suit.
She said an investigation revealed that the vandals had set a fire underneath the bridge to gain access to iron rods and other steel components under the bridge to be able to cut them off.
“Don’t patronise agents; fill your forms yourself.
So I want to use this opportunity to further appeal to the leadership and the president-elect not to renege on his promise to women.
They also contended that being a unique electoral dispute with a peculiar constitutional dimension, it was a matter of public interest where millions of Nigerians were stakeholders with a constitutional right to receive.
The fate of the president-elect, Bola Tinubu of the All Progressives Congress (APC), will continue to hang in the balance months after he would have been inaugurated as Nigeria’s president on 29 May.
While in the state, the president-elect will commission projects including a court building and a flyover — the 12th constructed by Mr Wike’s administration since he became governor in 2015.
Nigeria’s President condemns attack on American embassy officials in Nigeria
The review was supervised by the NNPC Upstream Investments Management Services (NUIMS) and the Nigerian Content Development & Monitoring Board (NCDMB).
*A monetary sum of 243.00 African rands (approximately.
But that could be way higher considering that the exchange rate used by such organisations in their reviews belongs to the autonomous forex market, a window closely controlled by the government, unlike the parallel market rate, which is driven by the forces of demand and supply and is more widely used.
Despite several agreements to a ceasefire, parties have continued to fight and vandalise public facilities including residences as seen in footage shown by Aljazeera.
Olalekan told the court that 28 out of the 30 depositors were reached through their email addresses to establish the purpose of the various sums they deposited in the defendant’s account and what they knew about “Swiss-Coin, Swiss earning, Swiss coins and Digitrades.ltd.”
“This development will aid our commitment toward zero hunger, promote productivity and profitability among farmers, improve national economy and address the challenges of unemployment,” he said.
The governor had earlier appealed to his friends on his birthday last year to make contributions on the occasion to the three special schools in the state.
“I pray that God almighty will give me the courage, wisdom, knowledge, and resources to take Imo to its destination.
“What we want to do is to bring harmonious relationships between the executive and the legislature.
The three people allegedly killed by the two siblings are Emeka Okeke, Nnayelu Olis and Chukwuma Ubego – all males, according to a charge sheet posted by Mr Gwamnishu on Twitter.
The statement added that the delegation also paid a courtesy call on the Commissioner of Police, Rivers State, where Mr Maikyau held a closed-door meeting with the police chief.
Mr Enin didn’t know he had been dubbed until he saw an unsolicited debit of N139,000 on his phone.
Total Valid Votes – 47, 891
He added that going ahead with the petition could be counterproductive against the interest of the party.
Mr Ari is the INEC official who illegally declared Aishatu Dahiru of the All Progressives Congress (APC), the winner of the Adamawa State governorship election, a day after the supplementary election.
INEC has provided 5,931 ballot papers for Saturday’s two federal constituencies supplementary elections in Oyo State.
Mr Shehu, in a statement sent to PREMIUM TIMES Saturday afternoon, said efforts are being made to rescue the abducted residents.
Miriam Onuoha promised to work with the executive arm and the president-elect, Bola Tinubu, if she is elected by her colleagues.
The media aide to Mr Akpabio, Jackson Udom, declined comment on the issues raised by Mr Ekere when PREMIUM TIMES contacted him.
“That no reasons whatsoever were adduced by the 1st defendant in the said letter 17th day of January 2022, warranting my purported removal or withdrawal of my appointment as the non-executive chairman of the 2nd defendant,” he wrote in his affidavit filed in support of his suit.
The electoral body had swiftly reversed Mr Ari’s declaration and announced that the legitimate collation and announcement of final results of the election would continue at a later date.
The results of only 325 seats were declared after the 25 February National Assembly elections.
Police arrest another Kuje jail escapee in Nasarawa
The senator also said Mr Tinubu and his party did not adequately consult with other senators-elect in making the decision to zone the leadership positions of the assembly.
To achieve a balanced reportage, Mr Olufemi said, he called the company’s hotline and a masculine voice confirmed the allegation when “confronted” with facts.
Binani, through her lawyer, Hussaini Zakariyau, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria, sought a judicial review of the administrative decision of INEC on 16 April in respect of her declaration as the winner of the governorship elections held on 18 March and the supplementary poll of April 15.
“It was only zoned to the southern part of Nigeria.
In 2020, there were estimated 241 million new cases of malaria and 627,000 malaria-related deaths in 85 countries.
We regret the inconvenience…” the minister wrote.
Mr Adedotun, who said he was engaged as a casual worker, told the court that he had to quit the job because he could not smoke Indian hemp which he said the job required.
Atiku writes CCB over Keyamo’s corruption petition
It said the stakeholders range from medical officials to activists, non-governmental organisations to professional associations, and others involved in the field.
She said an urgent proposal was being prepared for immediate dispatch to the ministry’s headquarters in Abuja, assuring them that repairs would begin almost immediately.
It is in this respect that the recent invitations and pronouncement by the EFCC Chair is imbalance, incomplete, hypocritical and unnecessarily skewed.
“The cartons of cough syrup with codeine, and cartons of unregistered medicaments including tramadol were all intercepted on the Asaba-Onitsha Expressway.
“These are flagrant violations of international law, and they must stop.”
“Betera’s consultation visit to the President-elect took place at his new official residence at the Defence House in Abuja, following the latter’s return from vacations and the Muslim lesser Hajj in Saudi Arabia,” the campaign office said.
Mrs Dahiru, on Monday, approached the court seeking court order to restrain the commission from voiding the illegal declaration that announced her as governor-elect.
“I take judicial notice of the essence of the creation of SERAP.
(This article was first published by CDD and was produced before the April 15 supplementary election).
Mr Ani said the Chairman of PSC, Solomon Arase, had called on the newly appointed CPs to be more dedicated to duty.
PREMIUM TIMES reported that the Nigerian government commenced the first phase of the evacuation of its citizens from troubled Sudan on Wednesday with the hiring of 40 buses.
“The period between September and November saw long petrol queues across the country, which led to supply chain disruptions and inadequate supplies of food ingredients.
In the survey, fewer countries were reported to have intentionally scaled back access across health service delivery platforms and essential public health functions since 2020-2021, which indicates a significant step towards pre-pandemic levels.
“We need to refrain from engaging in jungle justice, shun hearsay and report any incident to a nearby police station so that there will be peace in our community,” he said.
The reasons for the lateness include, among others, the fact that the conclusion letter, dated 14 July 2021, was not received by Mr Fagbewesa until 14 August 2021 because he had been away in Nigeria caring for his sick mother for a 3-week period from 25 July 2021.
The senate also adopted the report of the Committee on Public Accounts on annual reports of the Auditor -General for the Federation, on the accounts of the Federation for 2017 and 2018 among others.
Within 30 days it was able to organise the supplementary elections.
At Eke-Amaehi Polling Unit 021, Eziama, the Polling Unit of the candidate of the APC, Mr Akarachi Amadi, there was a large turnout of voters.
Mr Makinde, who said that the school-leaving age residents of the state needed employment, promised to create employment opportunities in his second term commencing from 29 May.
Immediate past Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva, has been declared winner of the Bayelsa State All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship primary, held on Friday.
Ms Waziri-Azi said that the crime was perpetrated by mostly young men against young girls within the FCT and called for increased vigilance among parents and stakeholders.
Officials said the challenge was resolved after some days by President Muhammadu Buhari’s direct intervention.
We will consolidate on what we have on ground when we are re-elected.
PREMIUM TIMES reported that Mr Tinubu settled for Godswill Akpabio (South-south) and Barau Jibrin (North-west) for senate president and deputy senate president, respectively.
11:50am: Abubakar Mahmoud announces appearance for INEC.
The RTEAN instituted the suit with ID number: NICN/LA/381/2022, in October 2022 to challenge the state government’s dissolution of the elected executive committee of the union in the state and appointing a caretaker body, known as the Parks and Garages Administrators.
The prosecution also alleged that “on diverse dates” between 2018 and 2021 within the jurisdiction of this court, Mr Kanu professed himself to be a member and leader of IPOB, a proscribed organisation in Nigeria.
(are you insane’’?
Others are Mohammed Almakura,(Lafia/ Obi Federal Constituency of Nasarawa State in the 6th Assembly, Nado Karibo(Ogbia Federal Constituency of Bayelsa State) in the 7th Assembly; Bashir Babale(Minjibir/Unogogo Federal Constituency of Kano State of 8th Assembly; and Segun Odebumi, (Surulere/Ogo Oluwa Federal Constituency of Oyo State) in the 9th Assembly.
The judge explained that in interrogating the issue of a plaintiff’s capacity to institute a suit, they must show how their rights were infringed upon by the defendant.
But the magistrate, in his verdict, held that the defendants’ arguments were “clear attempts to distort or arm-twist the facts and decisions of the Supreme Court.”
When I demand my rights, don’t see it as offensive, support me.
However, many state governments in Northern Nigeria sponsor hundreds of students for university education in Sudan.
Mr Jejeloye pointed out that the shanties not only constitute health and safety risks to residents in the area but also serve as a haven for criminals who use such locations as a hideout.
“My brother came on consultation with me.
Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning and a Distinguished private sector operator, Mr Atedo Peterside.
Although the first batch of Nigerian evacuees from Sudan are yet to arrive in their home country, the second phase of evacuation will commence Saturday, officials have announced.
The governor later presented cash and material donations to the school.
However, I note the matter of the Adamawa Supplementary Governorship Election and I urge police authorities to fully investigate all that transpired in the election given the attendant controversy.
Mr Sirika says the runway has been swept, inspected and certified for operations
On 22 January 2021, she left home to visit her eldest son leaving the victim with his sisters.
Mr Obi has denied playing politics of religion and ethnicity and asked his critics to provide evidence.
He added: “So we could not establish the substance in the allegation because detailed information to confirm the existence and origin of the shipment such as a sample of the oil, vessel involved loading point etc, location of the crude in China was not provided.
The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) arraigned Mr Ikuforiji and his former personal assistant, Oyebode Atoyebi, before the court on a 54-count charge of N338.8 million in money laundering.
Commenting on the excise duty on beverages, drinks and wines, Mr Yusuf said it should be noted that the Ad valorem tax is based on the value of the product, which makes the impact even more injurious to industrialists.
Mr Ararume, who was appointed to the position in September 2021, was removed shortly before the inauguration of the board of the company in January 2022.
Abubakar Mahmoud, INEC’s lawyer, expressed the electoral umpire’s readiness to cooperate with all parties in the petitions and the court.
Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media & Publicity
But Nigerians want to see good governance and not grandstanding.
Of the $104 million released to Nigeria’s social investment programme in the August-September 2018 and September-October 2019 payment cycle, $27,099,028 was from the International Development Association (IDA) credit.
He, however, commended the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) and other relevant agencies for their efforts in curtailing the menace of drug abuse in the country.
The police commissioner in charge of elections in Kano, Muhammad Gumel, announced this to reporters on Friday.
The newspaper mentioned several cases of such ‘non-essential’ commitments that the Buhari government has inadvertently tied its successor to.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the project is a secured and dedicated communication domain that provides real-time audio and video communication for military operations.
They were dressed in police uniform, but they are not policemen.
PREMIUM TIMES reported the statement by Mr Buhari during which he also accused the opposition parties of ‘bad tactical moves.’
Mr Kazeem stated that the accident took place at the Enugu end of the highway at about 8.20 p.m.
Of the 72 per cent recorded, NCDC noted that Ondo State accounted for 32 per cent, while Edo and Bauchi states reported 29 and 11 per cent respectively.
Mr Kaigama also noted that Nigerians “must hold leaders accountable for their actions, demand transparency in all acts of governance and demand a drastic cut in the cost of governance.”
However, it noted that the former world’s richest man, Elon Musk, slipped to second position after his worth was reduced by $39 billion due to his purchase of the social messaging app, Twitter.
Joseph Ngwu, a retired assistant superintendent of police, told PREMIUM TIMES that if there was no use of a harmful instrument in seizing a debtor’s property, the charge of robbery cannot suffice.
“There has been meetings between the Commissions about the future of the Benin Bronzes,” he said.
“This action led to a chase by the officers in a bid to establish further clarity of facts,” he said.
“Upon interrogation, Salisu Buhari confessed to have escaped from Kuje Correctional Centre when the facility was attacked last year.
Meanwhile, Kenneth Okonkwo, LP Presidential Campaign Council (PCC) spokesperson, and Valentine Obienyem, a spokesperson for Mr Obi, Sunday, confirmed the authenticity of the audio but gave a different interpretation of the conversation.
The late actor was a father of three, two boys, and one girl: Afolabi Olamilekan, Afolabi Fathia Moyosore, and Okikiola Afolabi.
Mr Benjamin said this on Thursday after observing the ongoing examination in Abuja, Nigeria’s Federal Capital Territory (FCT).
The presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP), Peter Obi, has told the Presidential Election Petition Court in Abuja of his predicament in accessing electoral documents from the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC).
“For instance, the federal government filed a motion (request) for extension of time to file appellant’s brief, but the motion was not served on us (the defence),” Mr Ozekhome told journalists shortly after Thursday’s hearing.
The co-founder of an offshore firm that won a controversial $6.6 billion arbitration award after arguing that Nigeria failed to fulfill an energy contract has admitted in a London court that the company and its affiliates had previously engaged in financial misconduct and deception –– including unexplained payments to senior officials, and falsifying invoices.
Workers’ Day: Tinubu promises Nigerian workers “living wage “, says minimum wage not enough
He died in London on Monday according to multiple sources familiar with his passing.
Such is the reckoning that conflict-sensitive reporting enjoys that UNESCO has had to invest heavily in it with trainers and researchers being relentless globally to entrench its principles.
Ms Brooks went ahead with her application, however, through a different route.
“Please, I need help, this police officer is shooting at my brother in broad daylight,” she said in the Twitter post, which was accompanied by a clip of the incident.
You can imagine what we’re going through.
“As we celebrate Easter, I urge citizens to exhibit the lessons of love, reconciliation, sacrifice, and kindness toward our fellow citizens, this is how to make this season meaningful and impactful.”
He said the difference in the cost is due to the different cost of the airfare component of the fare because some locations are closer to Saudi Arabia.
He said the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, having conducted elections ranked the LP third, a position it has rejected and has approached the Presidential
NEMA is in touch with the Nigerian airline, Air Peace, that volunteers the airlift and prepositioned aircraft for immediate departure as soon as the Nigerians arrive Aswan to bring them home,” NEMA tweeted.
Mr Ogbuagu denied the rumours that he had stepped down for the candidate of the APC, Mr Amadi.
Others are: one police belt, a hand glove, a pair of police boots, two police caps, one military T-shirt and one blue police uniform.
On behalf of all of us, we thank you for your interventions, we thank Mr President through you for his interventions, especially at those very difficult times when states were battling a lot of challenges, especially during the 2016 period when a number of states could not even pay salaries, bailouts and such other interventions really helped all of us, various states to really discharge our constitutional roles per state.
But the latest intervention, according to the University of Oxford, a booster dose of the R21/Matrix-M vaccine at one year following a primary three-dose regime, maintained high efficacy against malaria and continued to meet the WHO’s Malaria Vaccine Technology Roadmap goal of a vaccine with at least 75 per cent efficacy.
Others include: Simon Okeke, who joined the meeting from Nigeria, two from Europe – Adolphus Umunnakwe and Ignatius Muotoh, and two others from the United States of America – Godfrey Ajoku and Kingsley Obaji.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the minister also had engagements with the Council on Foreign Relations, a well versed think-tank on African affairs and foreign relations chaired by a Nigerian, Ebenezer Obadare.
Adeleke to continue in his stride to reposition and rebuild the state in line with the people-oriented policies, programmes and manifesto of the PDP,’’ he said.
On Monday, Mr Sirika, who was represented by the ministry’s permanent secretary, Emmanuel Meribole, said he hopes that the recommendations that will evolve from the conference will impact the system in no small measure such that the nation’s aviation will further gravitate towards achieving globally acceptable Standards and Recommended Practices (SARPS).
The attacks often target government officials, security agencies, and their facilities.
Mr Tinubu will be sworn in on 29 May as the newly elected president of Nigeria
In the suit filed on Tuesday, the group urged the court to order the police to probe the case and possibly refer Mr Tinubu to the Attorney-General of the Federation for prosecution.
“As part of the decisions reached at the end of an emergency management meeting held on Sunday, 30th April, 2023, the Board has fixed Saturday, 6th May, 2023, for all categories of candidates who have not sat their examination, as listed below, to take their examination,” Mr Benjamin said.
He said that 110 community households were given a donation of N200,000 to use and mitigate some of the effects of the 2022 flood.
Who should approach the Court where a particular law is detrimental to the interest of the country?
As fighting rages on in Sudan, humanitarian agencies are also monitoring the arrivals of new Sudanese refugees in neighbouring Chad, a representative of the UN refugee agency (UNHCR) said on Wednesday.
Speaking on the motion, Sergius Ogun (Edo, PDP) faulted the comment by the SSS, noting that they ought to have arrested the perpetrators of the plot.
The dictum that labour creates wealth remains as valid today as it has ever been, government must always pay serious attention to labour-related matters,
Responding to their plight, the Commissioner for Information in the state, Eric Anderson, said: “I am aware of the situation but that is not my beat.
Mr Uzor said although delayed services are not unusual at the national hospital, the doctors’ strike has worsened the situation.
Consequently, all other CMR Certificates hitherto issued by the Nigeria Police Force are therefore no longer valid/recognized forthwith.
“At Paragraph 102 (ii) of the petition, the petitioners urged the tribunal to determine that 1st petitioner scored the majority of lawful votes without joining Alhaji Atiku Abubakar in the petition.
Atiku said: “It is also a time for all of us — regardless of faith or ethnicity — to come together to pray for the peace of our nation.
He added that: “to secure funds for the project, the contractor, the Chinese Construction Engineering Company (CCEC) Nigeria Ltd., and the Federal Ministry of Transportation, engaged the CDB as the new financier for 973.5 million dollars.’’
“There are those of us who opposed the reappointment of Yakubu Mahmood.
Let us embrace this spirit and recommit ourselves to edifying and patriotic pursuits in the interest of our nation.
He added that the Clerk of the National Assembly, Sani Tambawal, had constituted a Central Planning Committee as part of efforts to ensure a successful induction.
Yakubu Maikyau, the incumbent NBA president, announced this in a statement on Monday.
This is contained in a statement by the YPP National Publicity Secretary, Wale Martins, on Tuesday in Abuja.
Using that as a criterion to delist such persons is not in line with the constitution of the Federal Republic,” Mr Ossai said.
He noted that AUN recently received the NUC’s approval to introduce B.Sc.
For the LP, 227 was recorded, but the number ‘2’ was erased and altered to read ‘027.’
The company’s PE ratio is 4.8x, while its EPS is N0.70.
The Federal High Court, Abuja on Thursday, declined a request seeking an order postponing the 2023 Census slated to hold from 3 to 5 May.
Mr Innocent said it was time for the government to get serious with the issues on the ground.
Mr Nwachukwu advised motorists to make use of alternative routes and all proximate routes to the Eagle Square from 5.00 a.m. to 1.00 p.m. on Thursday.
“When a patient takes antibiotics appropriately, the bacteria dies and gets eradicated from the body.
Some patients, however, lamented delay in getting health services.
-details of when he was arrested,
I have rested, I’m refreshed and I’m ready for the task ahead.
In its ruling, however, the court dismissed the defendants’ no-case submission, affirming that the prosecution had established a prima facie case against them.
“By the powers reposed on me, I hereby affirm and confirm that the troops of Nigeria Company 8 to the ECOWAS Mission in the Gambia have successfully completed the pre-deployment training at MLAILPKC and are certified suitable for deployment to the Gambia,” Mr Lagbaja said.
There was panic at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport in Abuja on Sunday after an aircraft belonging to Max Air which took off from Yola crash-landed along the runway of the airport.
He appealed for the endorsement of the party leadership for the position.
It is usually conducted once in 15 to 20 years as desired by country’s armed forces but the last time such a parade was conducted in Nigeria was in 2007 when 32 units/regiments were issued with new colours.
“First, and significantly, there was the presence of other children.
He assured that the commander would be prosecuted if found guilty of criminal acts.
It is therefore expected that they will play a major role in the battle for leadership positions in the upper legislative chamber during its inauguration on 13 June as was the case in the eight Senate.
“If everyone tries, it will calm down the situation.
The board had last Tuesday rescheduled tests for candidates who experienced technical hitches on the first day of the tests, fixing new schedules between 26th April and 2nd May.
“Today, April 13, 2023, a national daily carried a cover story in which it reported that I was against the aspiration of my deputy, Rt.
He added: “The APC must rise above primordial and political interest.
The Effium and Ezza-Effium people in the community have been engaged in a three-year communal conflict in which several people have been killed and thousands rendered homeless.
Who should institute actions in court for the purpose of recovering public funds collected?
On other intervention lines, Mr Echono disclosed that N500 million had been allocated to some selected COEs from the six geopolitical zones for the micro-teaching laboratories.
Dear PM and President,
“The Collation Officers have all returned and have written their reports.
Mr El-Rufai’s government was also accused by the government of demolishing a part of the school’s perimeter fence, saying the development has heightened the fear of terrorist attack, Tribune Newspaper earlier reported.
"My brother came on consultation with me.
“Requesting for handover notes now is like saying the outgoing administration should end today.
I have said it that these people are trying to do these but I did not campaign that it is a religious war, what for?
The fine of N5m imposed on Channels TV is entirely inconsistent and incompatible with these principles.”
In another development, the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) was probing Ms Umar for extra-budgetary expenditures of over N50 million.
“That Bomai Ibrahim Mohammed of the APC having satisfied the requirements of the law, is hereby declared as the winner and is returned elected,” he said.
Burkina Faso has also experienced a political upheaval with two coups in 2022.
Mr Ani said the report had claimed that some police officers gave $10,000 bribe to get special promotion from the PSC.
You have all seen the extent of what I will call unapproved extension into the water, at the back of each of the land that is abutting water.
I know, for instance, that Governors elected on the platform of the APC, chaired by Governor Atiku Bagudu, deliberated on the issue of my suspension and constituted a committee to intervene,” the former NPA chief wrote in the book.
Mr Yari, a former governor of Zamfara State, said this on Friday while meeting with the executives of the Tinubu Shettima Network (TSN), headed by its National Chairman, Kailani Muhammad, in Abuja.
“The government should strengthen the Fiscal-Monetary Coordination Committee to ensure that the monetary authority (CBN) and the fiscal authority (Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning) optimally coordinate policies to ensure the gains from fiscal and monetary reforms are maximized.
The solicitor general’s office, through its lawyer, B. Lloyd, opposed the sentence passed by the trial court.
The State Returning Officer, Mohammed Mele, later declared Governor Ahmadu Fintiri of the PDP winner of the poll after he scored the total vote of 430,861 to defeat the APC candidate who polled a total vote of 398,788.
“So maybe that was how he lured her.
I even borrowed money including my savings for him so that he would be able to pay for the trip, but after getting what he wanted, he divorced me,” she said.
10:48am: Plateau State governor, Simon Lalong, introduces self as Mr Tinubu’s representative.
He said people living with disability are special to his administration and that his government would work hard to bring out the best in them.
LinkedIn is the latest technology company to lay off its employees in a new wave of massive layoffs in the tech industry in which employees of Twitter, Facebook, Amazon, IT group Salesforce, Microsoft, Google, eBay, PayPal and Jumia have been affected.
The REC said the commission would take a decision on the matter after a meeting in Abuja.
25 in the official Gazette No.
“To reduce the high burden of TB, the state government, in collaboration with the National Tuberculosis and Leprosy Control Programme (NTBLCP) and other partners, set up 14 laboratories with gene Xpert machines for diagnoses.
Lawan worried over turnover rate, calls for capacity building for 10th NASS members
“It is important to point out that they all had police identity on them.
Air Peace accuses NLC, TUC of disrupting its operations
“Those who are VERY CLOSE to me over the years know exactly what I am talking about.
YIAGA Africa also said: “ We call on @inecnigeria to nullify the illegal declaration, suspend the REC for Adamawa state and take urgent actions to protect the integrity of the process.”
He argued that despite the latest attack, the state is one of the “safest” in Nigeria.
He is survived by two wives, 12 children and many grandchildren.
The region may be looking at payback for loyalty.
Taiwo Oyedele of PricewaterhouseCoopers on his official Twitter page highlighted the details of the new tax regime contained in the new Fiscal Policy Measures (FPM) documents and approved by President Muhammadu Buhari.
In terms of budget—how do I intend to stop the proliferation of projects?
He said he feels sad when “ugly cases” sprang up, adding that he handles 80 complaints daily.
The Labour Party candidate defeated the President-elect, Bola Tinubu in Ebonyi State.
“The court will also take into account the attitude of the defendant/applicant to the medical facility provided to him by his custodian.
“2nd petitioner conducted its presidential primary on May 30, 2022 which purportedly produced 1st petitioner as its candidate, which time contravened Section 77(3) of the Electoral Act for him to contest the primary election as a member of the 2nd petitioner.”
He said that his administration had achieved good success on opening rural roads and connecting communities; functional health insurance schemes; approved new retirement age for teachers; and trained and empowered over 9,000 youths via skills acquisition programmes.
The affected AIGs, according to him are the AIG Zone 14, Katsina, Ahmed Abdulrahman; AIG Police Mobile Force, Ibrahim Ka’oje; AIG Special Protection Unit, Matthew Akinyosola; and AIG Zone 12 Bauchi, Sylvester Alabi.
I want to state very clearly, we are not going to be a rubber stamp to anybody.
King Charles on taking his Coronation Oath prayed out loud asking to “be a blessing” to people “of every faith and conviction.”
He noted that one of the lessons learnt during the holy month of Ramadan was that of compassion and care for the needy, urging Muslims to continue to be their brother’s keepers as enjoined by the Almighty Allah through the Holy Prophet Muhammad (SAW).
After early years, adolescent and secondary education are the periods most capable of influencing the kind of woman and humans that they turn to become.
APGA has been embroiled in a vicious leadership crisis that ended up at the Supreme Court.
The attack on Fulani settlers followed an attack blamed on Fulani assailants that led to the death of several people.
”Federal Polytechnic, Offa, Kwara; Federal Polytechnic, Gombe; Federal Polytechnic Kabo, Kano State; Anambra State Polytechnic; Federal Polytechnic of Oil and Gas, Bonny; and Oyo State College of Agriculture and Technology, Igboora, are to get N1 billion each.
“The AGILE project is designed to respond to the challenges and constraints adolescent girls faced in accessing and completing secondary school education.
They face a two-count charge of fraud to which they pleaded not guilty.
He said Mr Oluomo of the APC polled 7,546 votes to defeat his arch rival, Yusuf Ogundele of the PDP, who garnered 6,596 votes .
When PREMIUM TIMES contacted Bayo Onanuga, the spokesperson of the now-dissolved APC Presidential Campaign Council, he said Mr Yara has provided the needed details on the passport online.
— A. Ayofe (@abdullahayofel) May 14, 2023
“Two-step verification, tapping change PIN or change email address, entering a new PIN or email address, and then tapping ‘next’ to effect the necessary changes,” he said.
He sought an order directing the defendants to immediately release the monies to him in view of the court judgment.
James Ahmadu, acting state chairman of the party, made the call on Friday while addressing journalists in Jalingo.
PREMIUM TIMES reported how gunmen, Friday morning, killed the five officers who had stopped by to eat at a local restaurant in Ngor Okpala Local Government Area of the state.
SDN said in one of its responses, NAOC claimed that “any leak is reported to regulators for joint inspection involving the regulator, the company and representatives of [the] concerned community,” adding that “from 2018 till now over 95 per cent of spills/gas leaks in flow lines in the area have been due to sabotage”.
So, those are no longer an existent problem now.
Ms Painstil said without proper treatment for patients, many will end up with a poor quality of life.
“The two charges are standing independently and both contain different elements from the one in which he was convicted and pardoned,” he further stated.
“Now is the time to think for the long term and to promote greater solidarity within societies and between generations.
These have been top priorities on the agenda of the outgoing administration,’’ Mr Ngige said.
Governor, Ondo State and Chairman Southwest Governors’ Forum
“They are spelt out clearly.
The organization expressed its disappointment that the commission has not made its investigations known to the public.
Unpleasant as this may sound, this blood that they have shed could be seen as blood of the birth of a new Nigeria.
But I believe that after Sallah, everything is going to be clear and leadership will come up with a position.
The NLC tells the governor that Abia workers were experiencing hardship as a result of the unpaid salary arrears.
“Let me reiterate that the audio call being circulated is fake, and at no time throughout the campaign and now did I ever say, think, or even imply that the 2023 election is, or was a religious war,” he wrote.
It was now no longer possible for party agents in collusion with unscrupulous electoral officials and security agents to simply thumbprint ballot papers and stuff ballot boxes in favour of certain parties and candidates.
OPEC in its report noted that oil production from the 13 members of the cartel averaged 28.60 million barrels per day in April, lower by 191,000 bpd compared to March.
Mr Nwachukwu, a brigadier general, said the last trooping and presentation of Colours Parade for the army units was conducted in 2007.
I am glad today that the money they made from my friends is been used to renovate the school, and it speaks to the fact that we can be our brother’s keeper.
Other appointees’ names remained on the list as earlier announced in September 2021.
The nation’s proposed national carrier was unveiled at the Farnborough Air Show in England on 18 July 2018.
"It is a double whammy for economic players to contend with a regime of high import duty, and prohibitive tax rates," the think tank said.
“This is a very important challenge which I think requires a whole day seminar for us as a party to ensure that we regain our eminent position in the politics of this country and the whole of Africa,” he said.
Chimammadi’s letter may be viewed as an attempt to undermine the course of justice or pre-empt the outcome of judicial processes.
The former president’s son also claimed that Mr Abass possesses the qualities to be a good Speaker of the House of Representatives.
They were later guarded into the court by police officers, followed by their family members, friends and sympathisers of the deceased.
At the column meant for recording the scores in words, there were evidence of adjustments to suit the changed figures.
“Countries will not reap the rewards of these investments without further commitment to scale up and roll out these innovations where they are needed most.
That incident remains a ‘precedent’ and chances are a future garrulous President may still invoke it, if Bill No.
He noted that many innocent lives of his people have been lost while the lawmakers were on recess to partake in the last general election.
The forum will enable young people to share their recommendations and innovative ideas in preparation for the SDG Summit, to be held under the auspices of the General Assembly, in September 2023.
Inaugural sitting held between 9.14am and 10.30am.
Thus, the organisation ranked Nigeria’s military the fourth most powerful military force in Africa.
The members-elect, drawn from the seven minority parties, in a statement on Monday, said they would use their numerical strength to produce the presiding officers of the lower House.
Accompanied by branch chairmen/secretaries and other senior members of the Bar in Rivers State, Mr Maikyau said he also visited the two police officers that were in the convoy, “who are on admission on account of the gunshot wounds they sustained during the attack.”
First Patriarch’s Chaplain and Bishop of Tinubu and the only person to have held the position of both patriarch and prelate.
However, about a year later, Abeeb Holdings Limited, an offshore company registered in Gibraltar with Tinubu as the beneficial owner, bought Flat 9 at 96-100 New Cavendish Street in London.
Mr Iwuanyanwu hails from Atta, a community in Ikeduru Local Government Area of Imo State.
“He has commenced timely reforms in the education sector, revived ICT and Science and Technology at basic and secondary education levels, reset agriculture and food supply chains, approved empowerment for SMEs, healthcare provision and infrastructural renewal, road infrastructure and maintenance, skill acquisition for youths and women, and established a conducive environment for investors, among others.
Atiku visits Orji Kalu, condoles him over wife’s death.
Atiku’s reply is on point of law which closes further exchange on the substance of his petition before court hearing begins in court.
12:23pm: Simon Lalong, Plateau State governor, announces appearance for APC
He said however a further extension of one week would be granted to states who have not yet sent in their reports.
In the clip, seen by PREMIUM TIMES, the victim, who spoke incoherently due to pains caused by the injuries, said the suspect beat her to a pulp with pestle and cane because she dropped the suspect’s child on the ground.
Prior to the general elections, the electoral umpire had touted the use of the Bimodal Voters Accreditation System (BVAS) machines as a game-changer that would boost the credibility of elections in the country.
I’ve done the first and I could not collect my PVC.
They are all from the three local government areas – Eastern Obolo, Ikot Abasi and Mkpat Enin,” Mr Emmanuel said.
In addition, the parliament called for the release of “Rhoda Jatau, Mubarak Bala and others who face blasphemy allegations.”
“For those concerned that their PIN might have been compromised or is easy to guess, they can change their WhatsApp PIN or email address by tapping settings.
According to the court document, the case could only be prosecuted once Susan decided she wanted to.
The police station in the crisis-torn Effium community, Ohaukwu Local Government Area of Ebonyi State, has been razed down by hoodlums suspected to be Ezza warriors.
An officer of the Ogun State Traffic Compliance and Enforcement Corps (TRACE), Popoola Olasupo, was on Sunday abducted at Fidiwo axis on the Lagos-Ibadan expressway.
“Fire trucks don’t work well without a direct source of water which we don’t have in most places.
What we know is that those who want to divide Nigeria will surely fail,” he said.
“No, not recently,” reacted the lawyer.
Mr Jejeloye, however, appealed to residents in the area to collaborate and come up with sustainable plans like employing private security officers to monitor the axis to prevent any unscrupulous individuals from erecting such makeshift structures.
“That he was going to shake the Nigerian Police Force; that he was the reason why the daughter of (Onyechi) Ikpeazu, SAN, died; that he was going to deal with everybody in this case.
Open the House, Nigeria is an open house, not a secret cult.
Two of Mr Wali’s personal aides died from gunshot wounds they sustained in the attack by the kidnappers, who then took him away, the NBA said.
He added that up to five airlines, including a Sudanese carrier, would be involved in the air-lifting, while another option of travelling by naval vessels within a seven-day duration was also being considered.
The scheme allocated 25 million dollars to Ekiti to provide laptop computers, renovate schools and provide instructional materials to empower mainly adolescent girls to keep them comfortably in school.
Why I did not give Amaechi birthday gift — Former NPA boss
“The reason our armed forces remain so close is that the relationship is being renewed again and again since independence."
The president prayed that God would grant the departed wife and mother, who was the Yeye Gbekonuyi of Idanre Kingdom and a former school Principal and Director of Education in Lagos State, a peaceful rest.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the judge, Nicholas Oweibo, held that in view of Section 308 of the 1999 Constitution, the EFCC lacks the power to initiate a criminal suit against an incumbent governor or President.
The United Kingdom (UK) Court of Appeal has affirmed the jailing of a Nigerian man for 20 years for raping a minor who is also his daughter.
“Ensure the timely tabling of government business on the floor of Parliament.
When PREMIUM TIMES checked the hospital’s medical emergency centre, surgical unit, and maternity clinic, among other departments, doctors were still available to attend to patients.
It described the petition as frivolous and an attempt to waste the court’s time.
“The voice of Tinubu, the president-elect, is essential.
“The FRSC commiserates with the families of the dead and prays for the repose of their souls.
You are serving at the instance of people so why can’t those people know what you are doing?” she asked.
I hold that the Motion of Notice for Mandamus dated 6th February 2018 and filed on 7th February 2018 has merit.
“Whether the provisions of Sections 839, 842, 843, 844, 845, 846, 847, 848 and 851 of the Companies and Allied Matters Act infringes on the plaintiff’s right to thought conscience, and religion as enshrined in Section 38 of the 1999 Constitution (as amended).”
SECURITY AGENCIES RELATIONS COMMITTEE (SARC)
“The five members in attendance constitute the majority of the nine members in the State Working Committee out of the original 14 members that can take the decision.
“Two days ago, I decided to bait the horde of sore losers at the last elections with a video of my vacation in ONE OF MY PROPERTIES abroad as I did a light workout.
From the loins of Agbolade
Read the full statement below.
The witness said the delegation passed through Lofa County to come to Monrovia to meet Charles Taylor, the Liberian President at the time, who was seen as the “godfather” of the RUF.
“At least 20 of currently 350 locations around the world will close – where, for example, the area can be covered by another ICRC office, or where other humanitarian or development partners can take over.”
• Ireti Heebah Kingibe FCT
You can’t buy guguru (popcorn) and epa (grounduts), which means that you cannot pay for the plantain; which means that the farmer cannot even pay for transportation of the goods from his farm to the [markets],” he said.
Tinubu greets Christians at Easter, urges Nigerians to love their neighbours
The statement comes against the backdrop of plans to suspend the removal of subsidies on petroleum products by the end of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration.
The new House of Representatives will be inaugurated in June, about two weeks after the inauguration of the president.
The report also said the high costs associated with low-skilled migration, including fees paid to agents, transportation costs, and pre-departure training expenses, limit the ability of workers to benefit from migration opportunities and go against the principles of fair recruitment.
The trio had argued that the man willingly agreed to donate one of his kidneys to the sick daughter.
The party in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Debo Ologunagba, in Abuja on Tuesday also described Mr Fintiri’s re-election as victory over tyranny and desperate manipulative forces which sought to take over control of the state illegally.
“A total of five people were involved which comprised four men and one woman; two people were injured while three deaths were recorded,” she said.
The APC governors, last week, recommended zoning the Speaker to North-west or North-central, while the Senate President should be zoned to the South-east and South-south.
Minister Lai accusing me of stoking insurrection is totally malicious and fictitious.”
“I have ordered him to hand over the Command to his immediate deputy because his role in the rerun election is currently being investigated and if he is found culpable, then he will have himself to blame.”
Two candidates from Plateau State, Deputy Speaker Idris Wase and Yusuf Gagdi, have already indicated interest the speakership position.
“Your abiding faith in the people of Osun State and the fidelity of the law courts have brought you to great heights, your joyful disposition has endeared you to many Nigerians, and your performance in office so far is a beacon to the delivery of democratic dividends, once the votes of the people genuinely count.
“We thank Onion and Garlic Processing Partnership Limited (O&G company) for coming to our rescue by establishing this timely processing plant,” he said.
This is absolute madness.
In a statement issued by the group on Tuesday, the group described the invitation of its global director to the global event as a testament to the impacts of its work in promoting youth development and empowerment.
“In the Ministry of Agriculture, it is so difficult to get details of who is benefitting from what,” he said.
The Corporation has done remarkably well in stabilizing the financial sector but is now faced with the hardcore of recovering its huge investments in the sector.
In arriving at the decision to postpone the census, the meeting reiterated the critical need for the conduct of a Population and Housing Census, 17 years after the last census, to collect up-to-date data that will drive the developmental goals of the country and improve the living standard of the Nigerian people.
The induction of the members-elect of the National Assembly involves training on legislative practices, norms and procedures.
Perhaps more important are the renowned efforts of former President Olusegun Obasanjo in the recent time in Ethiopia and other parts of Africa.
He assured the IGP that police officers in Anambra State will continue “to put in their best” to ensure the peace, security and safety of the state.
She said that it happened “a few times” and at another point “twice” but gave no specific details about the other occasions,” the court papers said about her testimony of being raped by her father in Nigeria.
Journalist Gobeze Sisay facing terrorism investigation in Ethiopia after arrest in Djibouti
“The right to participation was also violated in Lagos, Oyo, Rivers while voting related killings were recorded in Ebonyi, Kano, Lagos, Borno,” he said.
Items on the list include rice, woven fabrics, ceramics tiles and sinks, steel, containers for compressed or liquified gas, aluminium cans, washing machines, electric generating sets and rotary converters, smartphones, new and used passenger motor vehicles and electricity meters.
Asake who was featured on the track elevated the crowd and Davido who was happy to see him, he finished performing the song together.
“This, in the first instance, is the reason you are elected to serve, and this is why you need a senate president that is compassionate, honest, fair-minded, and result driven,” he said.
Three persons have been reported killed on Saturday as suspected members of rival cults engaged in a gun battle in Sagamu, Ogun State.
President Xi Jinping of China, United Kingdom Prime Minister Rishi Sunak, President of France, Emmanuel Macron, and Prime Minister of Israel, Benjamin Netanyahu, are among the global leaders that have since sent goodwill messages to Asiwaju Tinubu.
A separate share dealing document at the Nigerian Exchange on Wednesday showed Paul Olurotimi Otedola, the sibling of the energy tycoon, procured 300,000 units of the company’s shares at N288.9 per unit on 8 May.
The matter became complicated when Ms Chiduebube and three of her sisters were allegedly assaulted and arrested by five officers while they were on their way to the police station for a possible resolution of the issue that led to the arrest of their brother – Mr Ohadoma.
The Presidential/VIP Wing will coexist with the State House Medical Centre, located in Asokoro, Abuja.
The association said the new development contravenes the stance of the Federal Ministry of Education (FME), which it noted is the custodian of the school and its assets.
Binani, the candidate of Nigeria’s ruling party, All Progressives Congress (APC) seeks to become the first woman to be elected state governor in Nigeria.
New York-based climate security campaigner, 350.org, on Thursday implored financiers to hold back support for the construction of the East Africa Crude Oil Pipeline (EACOP), a 1,443km-project spanning Tanzania and Uganda and led by TotalEnergies.
Mr Buhari would be accompanied by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama, the National Security Adviser, Babagana Monguno, and the Director-General, National Intelligence Agency, Ahmed Abubakar.
Mr Dangote urged that the theme of this year’s World Malaria Day: “Time to Deliver Zero Malaria: Invest, Innovate, implement” highlighted the need for urgent action and further investments to ensure existing investments deliver maximum impact in the fight to end malaria.
“In some cases, ethnic profiling took place at polling booths.
According to the organisers, the summit is the convergence of key stakeholders from the private and public sectors, feed millers (toll, commercial and on-farm) and academia, to chart the way forward for the feed sector in Nigeria with a primary focus on feed value chain development, National Animal Feed policy document, National Strategic Feed Reserve and National Alternative Feed Ingredient Development.
The committees with their chairperson and alternate chairpersons are as follows:
Despite the public denunciation of the fake audio call, its contents have been translated to other Nigerian languages and circulated in most parts of Northern Nigeria with some of our Moslem clerics deceived and instigated to use the contents for their sermons at various Mosques during the usual Friday prayers.
Also at 306 Close, the governor ordered the removal of two-storey buildings adjacent to each other because they were constructed under the powerline and under water.
The focal person for the project, Ahmed Balogun, a professor in the Department of Meteorology and Climate Science, said the project which was kick-started in 2021, has developed innovative sustainable goat and sheep breeding strategies.
Atiku and the PDP in the petition dated 21 March claimed that Mr Tinubu’s victory was as a result of alleged malpractices and other irregularities, upon which they are seeking the nullification of his victory.
A break-away faction of the minority caucus of the members-elect of the House of Representatives has backed Tajudeen Abbas and Ben Kalu as speaker and deputy speaker, respectively, confirming a division in the caucus.
Each death of the husband courses tears down her cheeks and cries seem the only alibi of her innocence.
This, according to the party, was a violation of the Electoral Act.
It is a defence communications networks coordinate project executed by Defence Headquarters.
This is contained in a statement issued by the Head of NEMA Operation in Minna, Zainab Suleiman-Sa’idu, which was made available to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Ilorin on Monday.
Festus Adedayo, a journalist, writes from Ibadan.
“One of the passengers inside the commercial tricycle involved in the accident who was caught with more than 100 pieces of used small children ‘Diapers Pampers’ with a huge sum of money of different denominations was immediately handed over to policemen at the scene of the accident,” the statement read.
It added that the NEC reaffirmed and upheld the decision of the Akure convention which expelled its former publicity secretary, Arabambi Abayomi.
“Reviving the country’s economy forms a major plank of Tinubu’s Renewed Hope agenda and the meeting is part of his efforts to re-establish Nigeria’s importance in the global economic chain and create empowering opportunities for the country’s huge youth population,” the statement said.
“This is due to lack of adequate and effective storage and processing facilities at the farmers’ disposal.
He said that Hauwa Maltha, 26, and Kibaku by tribe from Jila in Chibok Local Government Area of Borno State, and her three-year-old baby were rescued.
Justice Stephen Jonah Adah, one of the judges sitting at Nigeria’s Presidential Election Petition.
On his part, the World Bank Representative, Christian Bodewig, revealed that the WURI initiative adopted a regional vision from its very conception, taking into account the high level of intra-regional mobility in the ECOWAS region.
Mr Abure urged the police, APC and their sponsors to play by the rules.
He explained that while in captivity, Hauwa got married at Gulukos, a village in Sambisa forest, to one Salman, a cameraman to Abubakar Shekau.
President Nana Akufo-Addo of Ghana is expected to chair the public presentation and launching of two new books on the legacies of President Muhammadu Buhari.
The House of Representatives committee investigating the alleged sales of 48 million barrels of crude oil has summoned the Minister of Finance, Zainab Ahmed.
According to Mr Abah, who is also the Country Director of Development Alternatives Inc., an international development company, the accident left the touchpad and keypad unresponsive.
In the clip which has been circulating on Twitter, Facebook and WhatsApp, one of the officers, armed with an AK-47 rifle, is seen slapping the unidentified man after beating him with a cane.
He urged the judiciary not to use technicalities to dismiss cases of corruption.
Mr Egbetokum was the supervising DIG for the South-west geo-political zone, prior to his new posting.
The executive governor of Anambra state, Charles Soludo.
The clash continued on Tuesday and Wednesday despite the deployment of police to the area.
Governor Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia State has announced an extension of teachers’ retirement age and years of service by five years.
In May 2019, Mr Adah delivered a belated judgement that could have saved the former Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Walter Onnoghen, who was controversially tried at the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT), and removed from office.
But the Kaduna State Government has kept mute on the matter as an official contacted declined to comment while another neither picked up calls nor replied to messages sent to his phone.
“It is your valuable contributions that have made our transitional journey easier, smoother and more productive; I thank Almighty Allah for the success.
It is about efficiency, performance, and delivery.
It would be recalled that SERAP had in July 2017 requested Mr Malami to “institute appropriate legal action to challenge the legality of state laws allowing former governors to enjoy life pensions while drawing normal salaries and allowances in their new political offices and to fully recover public funds from those involved.”
The National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) has refuted reports making the rounds online that it has banned Indomie Instant Noodles.
It is in view of this that we felt taken aback that Chimamandi went below expectations to pen-down a seditious letter against the Government and people of Nigeria.
In any case, there is not much else to engage one on a foundation of ownership stakes.
Election participation in Osun was 39 per cent.
Gershom Bassey (PDP-Cross-River), who seconded the motion said issuance of passport was a right of every Nigerian.
The title of the book is “Stepping on Toes, My Odyssey at the Nigerian Ports Authority”.
“That is why my principal, a fair-minded individual, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu insists the number three citizen must come from the South-south (Christian).
Thus, Mr Aluko sold the property at a discount of £8 million.
• Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko – Sokoto North
PREMIUM TIMES reported that the Supreme Court, at its previous sitting, granted the federal government leave to increase its grounds of appeal from to 13.
In minutes, he had revealed sensitive information, including the secret codes to his accounts.
“That’s slightly higher than China’s global record of 1.4 billion in 2022.
The airport in the capital Khartoum has been at the centre of the clashes and was therefore inaccessible.
Speaking to reporters in New York, Mr Perthes said “the two sides who are fighting are not giving the impression that they want mediation for a peace between them right away.”
Health experts, however, said about 95 per cent of deaths during childbirth are preventable.
The COAS reiterated his commitment and support to improve the standard of training as well as the welfare of recruits, instructors and staff of Depot, Nigeria Army.
The writer asked Mr Biden, the US president, to distance himself from the endorsement of the election results and congratulatory message to Mr Tinubu by the US State Department.
They are Economic Growth and Reform; Constitutional and Electoral Reform; National Security; Improved Social Conditions and Welfare; Efficient and Effective National Assembly and Global Influence.
“The Ukrainian power grid had been functioning for almost two months without any restrictions on consumption and with a power reserve,” Mr Galushchenko said in a statement, saying repairs had been a success.
Amina J. Mohammed, Deputy Secretary-General of the United Nations: “The state of our world is undeniably at its lowest points in history, with one crisis after another …COVID-19, climate, conflict…, Instead of unifying us in solidarity, it has shown us the fissures that tear us apart.”
In a swift reply to Atiku, Mr Keyamo said the US did not contradict itself.
Two weeks ago, bandits invaded communities in Mangu and Bokkos local government areas of the state and killed several residents.
The Deputy Speaker, Idris Wase (APC, Plateau), who presided over the session, said the security alert issued by SSS is not a matter of speculation.
Oluwole Ojewale, Regional Organised Crime Observatory Coordinator – Central Africa, ENACT, ISS
Earlier, the Zangon Kataf Youth Christian Association of Nigeria, accused the military of not promptly responding to attacks by terrorists in the area.
Senate last week set up a committee to investigate transactions allegedly carried out by the NDDC under its 2021 and 2022 budgets without the approval of the Senate.
Mr Moyi said Mr Amadu of the PDP, having scored the higher number of votes and meet the requirements of the law was the winner and returned elected.
“If there are reasonable grounds to suspect these assets were bought with criminal funds then they should be investigated,” said Steve Goodrich, head of research and investigations at Transparency International U.K. “Owning a home via an offshore company has seldom made much sense except for securing secrecy,” he added.
Two years later, a group of Mexican human rights organizations published a report revealing Aristegui had been subject to surveillance using the powerful Pegasus spyware in 2015 and 2016.
President Buhari and H.E.
The Medical Director, West Africa Pfizer, Kodjo Soroh, said at least 700,000 people die each year due to drug-resistant diseases.
The PDP commended the workers for their patriotism in serving the country.
Mr Tinubu won the 25 February presidential election on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), according to the result declared by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on 1 March.
The tea seller and other clients were already trying to douse the tension when the policeman started beating him, and my cousin retaliated,” he said.
The primary destination markets include China, Thailand, Malaysia and Vietnam.
Wednesday, May 10th, 2023.
Yes, we are all angry and we all want Justice.
The group also appealed to the National Assembly and the Federal Ministry of Health to ensure published copies of the National Mental Health Act 2021 are available to citizens.
Besides unleashing Fulani killers on our people, the Buhari government denied Benue State any meaningful project in the last eight years, including the repair of federal government roads in the state which are now death traps.
Mr Kyari said the company’s mandate of providing energy for the country remains a priority.
Other members of the committee are, Erelu Mark, Ikechukwu Nwosu, Deolu Harrison, Usman Ibrahim and Anthony Onwuka.
You will have a living wage to have a decent life and provide for your families.
They are finding it hard to convince those who supported them from the outside why they are unable to beat us.
The sub-adult birds, male and female, were donations from the National Park Service of Nigeria to the Biodiversity Preservation Centre (BPC), Uyo, for teaching, learning and research.
NAN reports that EFCC had on 22 January 2022 arraigned Mompha alongside his company, Ismalob Global Investment, on an eight-count charge of N6 billion laundering, which he pleaded not guilty to.
The election court and the Supreme Court are, however, not expected to rule before Mr Tinubu is sworn in as president on 29 May.
“He died aged 62 on Monday 8th May 2023, in the United States of America, after a brief illness.
According to Mr Adesina, the president is scheduled to participate and deliver remarks at the high-level discussion on strategies for strengthening peace and security in the fight against maritime-related crimes in the gulf.
According to PREMIUM TIMES’ calculation of the likely value of the property when it was bought by Aranda Overseas Corporation done on the website of the UK’s National Building Society, which is the largest building society in the world, the property should be worth approximately 17 million pounds.
Mr Echeng said five of the hoodlums were suspected members of the outlawed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), while two others were suspected kidnappers.
“A series of upcoming challenges, from the ongoing war in Ukraine to a still-uncertain economy, could provide hurdles to Biden’s reelection.
The State Commissioner for Information in Anambra State, Paul Nwosu, did not respond to calls and a text message seeking his comments.
Sparked off by the ouster of dictator, Mohammed Siad Barre, this resulted in a shift in the balance of power, eventually culminating in a twenty-plus-year civil war with as many as one million Somalis killed.
Justice Chukujekwu Aneke of the Federal High Court sitting in Ikoyi, Lagos, on Friday, May 5, 2023, ordered the final forfeiture of eight properties, seven in Abuja and one in Bayelsa State, as well as 30, 000 MTN shares( MTN Link Units) linked to Maj. Gen. Emmanuel Atewe ( rtd.
“The Human Rights Commission adjudged the government liable to pay about N135 million to the family of the victims of the alleged infractions.”
It is believed tha Mr Oyebanji visited to extend the hands of fellowship to Mr Oni.
Nigeria is a country other West African nations look up to.
The arraignment came less than 24 hours after the police demoted another officer filmed slapping a motorist in the neighbouring Rivers State.
A statement by the Head of Press and Public Relations of PSC, Ikechukwu Ani, on Friday in Abuja, said Mr Arase gave the assurance when he hosted some members of Civil Society Organisations (CSOs).
This is Mr Wali’s second abduction experience, after some unknown gunmen seized and held him for a few days in October 2014.
The Police in Adamawa, in collaboration with local hunters, killed a suspected kidnapper and rescued two victims in Toungo Local Government Area of the state on Sunday.
The Chairman of the seven-member 2023 Governorship Primary Election Committee, Williams Kayoda, said that 64,667 delegates from the 305 wards of the 27 Local Government Areas were accredited for the poll.
As we all enjoy the well-deserved break, I urge every Nigerian to reflect on the priceless sacrifice and limitless love of God for mankind.
“I will not lie, I bring in different women to the house but I am ready to change.
He appealed against the 28 October decision of the Court of Appeal Abuja which stayed the execution of its earlier order acquitting him of all charges and directing his release from custody.
Liberia: Former RUF soldier contradicts other defence witnesses on when Massaquoi moved into UN “Safe House”
In a veiled reference to Bukola Saraki, former Kwara State governor and Nigerian Senate President, Mr Oke recalled that Mr Saraki was accused of having dual citizenship, in a desperate bid to scuttle his Senate presidency ambition.
The applicant further submitted that the INEC, being an agency of the government, can have its actions, records, and decisions checked by the court and only a court can nullify the actions of an INEC official and not the INEC itself.
With a total cost amounting to N21 billion, completed well on schedule and on budget, the VIP Wing also showcases a Catheterization Laboratory (Cath lab), two operating rooms for regular procedures, and special procedures such as organ transplants.
Chimamandi’s letter is most unbecoming.
Since her re-emergence, the sources said, she had defied accountability to the minister, claiming to be reporting only to the president, an act considered to be clear insubordination.
The rerun election was held in 69 polling units in the 20 local governments in the state, with less than 40,000 eligible voters.
It was the loss of the loan facility from the Aras Group that triggered the defamation suit against the journalists.
I think it’s very unfortunate but I don’t think people in Nigeria really care about ethnicity as much as they care about having a country that works for them, we want good leadership, and we want the hospitals, the schools and roads to be good and that affect everyone, whether Yoruba, Ijaw, and everyone.
“My lord, the defendant was not informed on the day the matter came up for the first time before this court.
Four other political parties are also challenging Mr Tinubu’s victory on similar grounds.
“Therefore, appropriate sanction will be applied against defaulters for violating such policies and directives.
The governor made the disclosure on Friday night while addressing journalists shortly after he had a meeting with Mr Akpabio.
Peter Obi was accosted by immigration officials at Heartrow Airport who handed him a detention note and told him to step aside.
Workers must now rise and ensure that they champion any discussion on subsidy removal.
Mr Olayinka however called on the governor to ensure payment of accumulated outstanding gratuities at both pension boards and adequate provision of funds for the boards to off-set gratuities.
Musa Danmadami, a major general, said this on Thursday in Abuja at the bi-weekly news conference on the operations of the armed forces.
In Kaduna State, the party lost the three senatorial seats and got only three of the 16 Reps seats.
It is with great pleasure that I write in respect of Senator Ike Ekweremadu, who I have known for over two decades.
The National Organising Secretary of the PDP, Umar Bature, made the disclosure in a statement on Saturday.
Chibuike Okafor, on Monday, was crowned as the new traditional ruler of the community.
Three northwestern states of Kano, Kaduna, and Katsina recorded the highest number of votes in the governorship election.
APC also argued that as against the AA’s claim, INEC (listed as the 1st respondent) did not unlawfully exclude Mr Okanigbuan’s name because he was never the lawfully nominated and sponsored candidate of the petitioner, which did not submit his name to INEC as its candidate for the election.
Gov Uzodinma reacts to reported attack on his convoy, killing of police officers
He said preliminary investigation revealed that the suspects were notorious suppliers of ammunition and hard drugs to terrorists.
Charles was proclaimed King in September 2022 upon the death of his mother, Queen Elizabeth II.
He further contended that the sections trampled on his right “to freedom of peaceful assembly and association as enshrined in section 40 of the constitution.”
The last point has been emphasised by African experts, including Professor David Luke of the London School of Economics and Political Science’s Firoz Lalji Institute for Africa.
He said the approval followed the Buhari administration’s compliance with the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) judgement and payment of N135 million in compensation to victims and family members of the 18 September 2013 Apo six killings.
They are; Akwa Ibom (2), Anambra (1), Bayelsa (1), Edo (1), Imo (1), Kano (2), Kebbi (2), Kogi (1), Oyo (2), Rivers (2), Sokoto (11), Taraba (1) , Zamfara (2), Jigawa (1) and Ebonyi state (1).
The court earlier ruled that the plaintiff, Emmanuel Ekpenyong, had a locus standi to institute the suit on the subject matter.
Nigerian military eliminates 53 terrorists in two weeks – DHQ
As part of the grand design, they are circulating a fake doctored audio call.
The president inaugurated Nigeria Agenda 2050 before the commencement of the meeting of the Federal Executive Council at the Council Chamber.
He said that exporting the surplus electricity would provide additional financial resources for the reconstruction of the destroyed and damaged energy infrastructure.
“It was not a vote for Peter Obi.
“He called me a stupid woman and I also called him a foolish man.
We have not lived up to the vision that you have for us – a vision of justice, peace, unity, and prosperity for all our children.
After losing the PDP’s ticket, Mr Mbadinuju defected to the now defunct Alliance for Democracy, where he later emerged the party’s governorship candidate, but lost in the general election.
Commissioner of Police in Rivers State, Okon Effiong has ordered the arrest of two officers seen in a viral video assaulting an unidentified man in the state.
The judge, Okon Abang, had in November 2021, jailed Mr Maina after convicting him and his company, Common Input Property and Investment Ltd, on all the 12 counts of money laundering filed against them by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC).
015/2023, signed by its Director-General, Mojisola Adeyeye, and issued to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja.
This is contained in a statement by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Interior, Shuaib Belgore, on Wednesday in Abuja.
He advised intending pilgrims to participate in all activities earmarked by the board for proper guidance to get value for their money without any hindrance.
That said, the movie also has its flaws.
These are important transparency-related Bills that should enhance the checks and balances envisaged by the Constitution.
The only female aspirant for the position of Speaker of the Nigerian House of Representatives, Miriam Onuoha, spoke with PREMIUM TIMES Bakare Majeed on her aspiration and plans if elected.
In another tweet, the former education minister said: “@hadisirika , in furtherance of the Open Governments program which your @NigeriaGov administration signed to, please share the full specification details of the fire trucks procured.
The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), Tony Ojukwu, also promised to assist the police with the necessary skills and knowledge that are aimed at promoting the rule of law.
In its ruling delivered by Mohammed Lawal, the Supreme Court restated its power to review its judgement and correct such an “accidental error,” when its attention was drawn to it.
