Buhari salutes NYSC at 50, lauds Gowon for vision
Mr Buhari says NYSC has provided opportunities for cross-cultural interactions and established formidable bridges for improved understanding.
President Muhammadu Buhari has saluted a former Head of State, Yakubu Gowon, for the wisdom of setting up the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), in 1973.
In a statement by his spokesperson, Femi Adesina, on Friday, in Abuja, Mr Buhari said the scheme had indeed achieved the goal of national integration.
The president said this was by providing opportunities for cross-cultural interactions and establishing formidable bridges for improved understanding.
Mr Buhari congratulated Mr Yakubu, a retired general, and all the former and incumbent directors-general of the corps for inspiring and sustaining a 50-year legacy that had strengthened a web of solidarity and bolstered loyalty to the nation.
He said the scheme had also broadened the horizon of citizens, promoted civic responsiveness, created a better understanding of various individual and ethnic identities and their diversities and underscored the bottom line of the shared values of fairness, justice, peace and unity.
According to him, the NYSC remains one of the most vital ideals of nation-building, institutionally encouraging inter-cultural and inter-religious marriages and removing insularity among citizens.
He said the scheme had also helped in resettling people of various tribes in different parts of the country, exploring entrepreneurship and business opportunities in places, and enabling a new culture of oneness, brotherliness and neighbourliness.
Mr Buhari affirmed that the scheme must be sustained, with a constant reminder of the history, structure and purpose that should not be abused, trivialised or undermined.
This, he said, could be achieved by keeping a focus on the larger picture: ”Nigeria’s unity is a process and a collective responsibility that must not be negotiated.”
According to the president, he shares the joyous season of the milestone with all those that have enjoyed the adventures of the scheme and have been sharing memories and pictures with nostalgia.
The president wished potential corps members all the best as they moved to different parts of the country to share and explore new experiences of the diversity of Nigeria.
Mr Buhari recalled that one of the joys and highlights of his administration had been the annual ritual of receiving corps members in his country home in Daura, Katsina State, during Eid-el-Fitr Sallah and asking about their welfare.
He noted that two visiting presidents from Niger Republic and Guinea Bissau had participated and enjoyed such interactions.
The president thanked the Nigerian Army, the director-general of the NYSC, and various private and public institutions for providing the enabling environment for the scheme’s success.
(NAN)

Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

