Senate Presidency: Aggrieved aspirants visit, petition APC as Adamu promises review of zoning of principal positions
"What we are expecting from you people is to give us a fair play, at least if nothing, to mention that a particular position is zoned and anybody in that zone can’t participate."
Three aggrieved All Progressives Congress (APC) senators have petitioned the party’s secretariat over the adoption of consensus candidates for the Senate Presidency of the 10th National Assembly.
The senators are Abdulaziz Yari (APC-Zamfara), Sani Musa (APC-Niger) and Orji Uzor Kalu (APC-Abia).
Presenting their grievances during the visit on Thursday in Abuja, Mr Yari said the fourth senator, Osita Izunaso, couldn’t join the group on the visit due to unforeseen circumstances.
“We are here to present our letter of grievances to you and also tell this honourable house as a leaders, that we are not satisfied with the arrangement.
“What we are expecting from you people is to give us a fair play, at least if nothing, to mention that a particular position is zoned and anybody in that zone can’t participate,” Mr Yari said.
He added that the lawmakers had done their best to ensure that the party remained in power and deserved to be carried along in its decisions.
Mr Yari added that politics was all about dialogue and communication, saying that all sides should be given a fair hearing.
Responding, the APC National Chairman, Abdullahi Adamu, said the zoning of the Senate Presidency was done in concert with stakeholders and some senators.
Mr Adamu, while welcoming the lawmakers, expressed satisfaction with their visit and decision to come open with their grievance.
“As chairman of the APC and members of the NWC, we take responsibility, I take responsibility for what has gone on air, and in that spirit, I welcome you to this office on behalf of my colleagues.
“Yes there were no sufficient or adequate consultations with you who are contesting, and it is a simple principle of democracy that you get views and opinions.
“But the circumstances that we found ourselves in after the elections frustrated our desire,” Mr Adamu said, adding that the party’s leadership would revisit the issue in the interest of all.
While appealing to the lawmakers to be calm, the APC national chairman said the contributions of Bola Tinubu were, however, critical on the issue of the 10th National Assembly.
“Hold the fire until the last word is heard from us, we are the custodians of the party as NWC, but we are not acting alone.
“The voice of Tinubu, the president-elect, is essential. We must accommodate him the best we can. I will not compromise on that.

“He is right now outside the country, and by the grace of God, when he comes back, we will go back to the drawing board and put our heads together again and see what we will get.
“I cannot preempt that; I will wait until we hold that meeting with the president-elect,” Mr Adamu said.


He assured the lawmakers that the party’s leadership would go through their memo to address issues contained in it.
“Whatever you heard is the art of human endeavour, and we are not perfect as human beings. We can make mistakes.
“So, if we find in the course of further consultations the mistakes that need to be looked at, we will look at them. The important thing is that the spirit of the party must be kept alive.
“Our eyes must stay on the ball, but in doing so, we must make sure justice will be done; we will do the best as human beings to deliver justice to all and sundry,” Mr Adamu said.
Mr Tinubu and the party had endorsed Godswill Apabio ( South-south) and Barau Jibrin (North-west) for the positions of the senate president and deputy senate president, respectively.
They also settled for Tajudeen Abbas (North-west) and Ben Kalu (South-east) for the speakership and deputy speakership of the House of Representatives.
The 10th National Assembly will be inaugurated in June.
(NAN)
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

