State House Medical Centre: Buhari to inaugurate N21 billion presidential wing Friday
This is contained in a statement issued on Friday and signed by the Director of Information at the Presidential Villa, Abiodun Oladunjoye.
Less than two weeks to the end of his two-term tenure of office, President Muhammadu Buhari will Friday inaugurate the presidential cum Very Important Personalities (VIP) wing of the State House Medical Centre.
The new wing, an extension of the existing medical centre, located inside the presidential villa in Asokoro, Abuja, Nigeria’s Federal Capital Territory (FCT), is said to have cost N21 billion.
This was contained in a statement issued on Friday and signed by the Director of Information at the Presidential Villa, Abiodun Oladunjoye.
Mr Oladunjoye said after the official ribbon-cutting ceremony on Friday, Mr Buhari would embark on a guided tour of the state-of-the-art facility and will be accompanied by the State House Permanent Secretary, Tijjani Umar.
The project, he said, commenced in November 2021 after a groundbreaking ceremony was performed by the Chief of Staff to the President, Ibrahim Gambari, a professor.
The press statement is reproduced below:
As a demonstration of his commitment to advancing healthcare management in the country, President Muhammadu Buhari will on Friday, May 19, inaugurate the state-of-the-art Presidential/VIP Wing of State House Medical Centre, Abuja.
This legacy project, situated within the premises of the Presidential Villa, had its ground-breaking ceremony conducted by the Chief of Staff to the President, Prof Ibrahim Gambari, on November 1, 2021.
Spanning an impressive total floor area of 2,485 square meter on a suspended floor with a basement, the hospital, which serves as a specialized Intensive Care Centre, caters for the President, Vice President, their immediate families and VIPs; incorporates state-of-the-art medical technology.
The Presidential/VIP Wing houses several specialized departments, to be staffed by a team of medical professionals, featuring five consultation rooms dedicated to various specialties, including respiratory, cardiology, ophthalmology, ENT, and general consultation.
Additionally, the hospital has a specialized X-ray suite equipped with a digital X-ray machine as well as a diagnostic suite encompassing MRI, CT scan, and endoscopy facilities.
Moreover, patients and visitors can enjoy access to a Healing Garden, designed to foster healing, relaxation, and enhancement of overall well-being.
With a total cost amounting to N21 billion, completed well on schedule and on budget, the VIP Wing also showcases a Catheterization Laboratory (Cath lab), two operating rooms for regular procedures, and special procedures such as organ transplants.
Following the ribbon-cutting ceremony, President Buhari, accompanied by the Permanent Secretary of the State House, Tijjani Umar, will embark on a guided tour of the hospital.
“We are excited that Mr. President has kindly consented to inaugurate this legacy and transformative project on the cusp of the completion of his two-term tenure as President and Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria,” the Permanent Secretary said.

“Since the inception of this project in 2021, the State House Management has successfully completed several projects including a Special Care Centre, Biosafety Level 2 Molecular Laboratory, certified by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), a medium capacity incinerator and the Dental Wing Extension Building at the State House Medical Centre, Asokoro, a block of 2-bedroom flats at the Staff Quarters of the Medical Centre, as well as a 54-seater State House Multi-Purpose Training Centre at the Auditorium.
‘‘The Conference Car Unit (CCU) workshop and the Modern Fleet Management hub will be commissioned next week,’’ he added.


The Presidential/VIP Wing will coexist with the State House Medical Centre, located in Asokoro, Abuja. The medical facility remains committed to providing accessible, well-equipped, and rejuvenated healthcare services, catering to the diverse needs of patients through a range of comprehensive medical treatments.
Guests invited to the inauguration ceremony are expected to be seated by 9: 00 a.m.
Abiodun Oladunjoye
Director, Information
May 17, 2023
MORE PICTURES:




Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

