Police, local security outfits rescue 58 kidnap victims in FCT
"The bandits were overpowered and escaped with various degrees of bullet injuries leaving behind their victims."
The Police Command in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), in collaboration with local security outfits, have rescued 58 kidnap victims from some identified kidnappers’ den in communities contiguous to the territory.
The Police Public Relations Officer in the FCT, Josephine Adeh, said this in a statement on Sunday in Abuja.
She said the victims were rescued at Udulu Forest, Gegu LGA of Kogi State, bordering Sardauna Forest, Nasarawa State, and other identified kidnappers’ dens in communities contiguous to the FCT.
According to her, the bandits/kidnappers on sighting the security team coordinated by the police, engaged the security team in a shootout duel.
“The bandits were overpowered and escaped with various degrees of bullet injuries leaving behind their victims,” she said.
Mrs Udeh, a superintendent of police, said the rescue operation was part of efforts by the command’s leadership to sustain joint operations with other security agencies, vigilantes and hunters from the various local communities.
She said the idea was to combat violent crimes in the FCT, rescue victims and bring perpetrators to book.
The PPRO pledged the commitment of the command at sustaining efforts to prevent threats to the safety and security of FCT residents.
She said the command would also not relent in ensuring the rescue of any residents held hostage by criminals as well as bring the perpetrators to book.
Mrs Adeh said the Commissioner of Police (CP) in charge of the FCT, Haruna Garba, has called for cooperation from FCT residents.
She said the CP enjoined the residents to be security conscious and provide credible information to the police.
Mrs Adeh said one of the kidnap victims, Tama Jonathan, unfortunately, sustained injury during the rescue operation and died on the spot.
She said the remains of the victim had subsequently been released to his family for burial.
She said the other 58 rescued victims were being stabilised in the hospital and would be reunited with their families.
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility

Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

