ACF kicks against Akpabio as Senate President
Mr Saidu, the leader of the Arewa Community in Southern Nigeria, said endorsing Mr Akpabio for the Senate Presidency would spell doom for Northern Nigeria.
The Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) has dissociated itself from the endorsement of Godswill Akpabio for Senate Presidency by the Coalition of Northern groups.
Musa Saidu, a member of the ACF, said this in a statement on Sunday in Abuja.
Mr Saidu, also the leader of the Arewa Community in Southern Nigeria, said endorsing Mr Akpabio for the Senate Presidency would spell doom for Northern Nigeria.
“We hereby dissociate ourselves from the endorsement of Sen. Godswill Akpabio for the Senate Presidency by a coalition of Northern groups.
“The Coalition is not speaking for the North, it is just speaking for itself.
“No true Northern group will want to endorse Akpabio for a sensitive position like that of Senate President because he is not friendly with the North.
“We are the people who know Akpabio because we are residents in the South, we know those who are friendly with the Northern people and Akpabio is actually not one of them, ” he said.
Mr Saidu added that the coalition must have made the endorsement out of ignorance.
“I want to condemn the endorsement in its entity because it was done out of ignorance.
“It is also possible that the groups were given some inducement to endorse Akpabio.
“I want to say that the Northern people are not beggars that will be endorsing people who are not friendly with them because of inducement,” he said.
Mr Saidu said the ACF would continue to fight or speak against injustice in the country.
“Why should the All Progressives Congress (APC) be bent on zoning the 10th Senate Presidency to the South, when we have competent hands in the North?
“The North-West gave the APC the largest votes in the Feb. 25 presidential election, so why not consider somebody from the zone?
“I think it’s time for the party to reward the zone for the massive votes rather than start looking for somebody from the South as Senate President,” he said.

A coalition of Northern groups had endorsed Akpabio for the Senate Presidency saying he was best suited for the position.
Apart from Mr Akpabio, a former governor of Abia State, Orji Uzor Kalu, and Abdulaziz Yari, former Zamfara gov, have also declared their interest to be senate president once the 10th Senate is proclaimed into existence.


(NAN)
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

