‘My husband runs after anything in skirt’, Woman tells Court
“My husband changes women anyhow and he doesn’t respect me. If the court doesn’t dissolve the union, I will run away with my kids."
A 44- year-old woman, Oluwatoyin Falade, on Wednesday, asked an Orile Agege Customary Court to dissolve her 11-year-old marriage on grounds of infidelity on the part of her husband, Segun.
The petitioner, who lives at 23, Tunde Davids Close, Agege, Lagos, has two children for Segun, ages eight and 11.
“My husband is a flirt, he runs after anything in skirt.
”I had two girls before I married him and those girls are 15 and 18. They stay with me and I don’t trust my husband because he chases everything in skirt.
“My husband changes women anyhow and he doesn’t respect me. If the court doesn’t dissolve the union, I will run away with my kids,” she said as she burst into tears.
Oluwatoyin said that people mock her in the neighbourhood because of her husband’s infidelity.
“I am fed up, Segun cannot change, chasing after women and ladies has become the order of the day for him,” she said.
She alleged that he does not take care of her and the children.
In his response, Segun, 46, a Lagos State Judiciary worker, admitted to infidelity.
“I will not lie, I bring in different women to the house but I am ready to change. I have been begging her to please forgive me,” he said.
He said he takes care of the children and his wife.
“My Lord, you can see that my wife is robust and fresh. It is obvious that she is not suffering.
“I bought her a phone recently and I pay the children’s school fees,” he said.
Segun said that he was not ready for the dissolution and promised to make things right if given another chance.
The Court’s President, Adewale Adegoke, told both parties to be at peace with each other.
Mr Adegoke adjourned the case until May 30 for alternative dispute resolution (ADR) mechanism.

Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

