N8.5bn Fraud: Court orders final forfeiture of properties linked to ex-JTF commander
The properties linked to the ex-JTF commander are located in Bayelsa and Abuja.
The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) says it has obtained an order of final forfeiture of some properties linked to Emmanuel Atewe, a retired major-general and former Commander of the Military Joint Task Force, Operation Pulo Shield, in the Niger Delta.
The commission said in a statement that the forfeited assets comprised seven in Abuja and one in Bayelsa State, as well as 30, 000 MTN shares (MTN Link Units).
Chukujekwu Aneke of the Federal High Court in Ikoyi, Lagos, issued the order of final forfeiture of the assets on Friday.
Mr Atewe is being prosecuted by the EFCC alongside Patrick Akpobolokemi, a former Director-General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Kime Enzogu and Josephine Otuaga on 22 counts of conspiracy, stealing and money laundering.
Read EFCC’s statement in full:
Justice Chukujekwu Aneke of the Federal High Court sitting in Ikoyi, Lagos, on Friday, May 5, 2023, ordered the final forfeiture of eight properties, seven in Abuja and one in Bayelsa State, as well as 30, 000 MTN shares( MTN Link Units) linked to Maj. Gen. Emmanuel Atewe ( rtd.), a former Commander of the Military Joint Task Force, Operation Pulo Shield, in the Niger Delta.
The landed properties are: 50 hectares of farmland at Plot No. FL746B Gaube Farmland Extension II Layout, Kuje, Abuja; a piece of land located at Commercial Layout, Yenagoa Gardens, Bayelsa State; one hectre of land in Kuje District, Abuja; Plot No. CP10, Sector Centre B Layout, Kuje, Abuja; Plot MF62 Outer Northern Expressway Cadastral Zone, Abuja; Plot No. 1228 Jahi, Abuja; four hectares of land designated as Plot No.CP6386 and Plot No.CP6387, Sabon Lugbe, Abuja.
The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, had, on March 26, 2020, secured the interim forfeiture of the sum of N290, 000,000( Two Hundred and Ninety Million) reasonably suspected to be proceeds of an unlawful activity, the landed properties and 30,000 MTN shares , following an ex parte application filed before Justice Muhammad Liman, who has since been transferred to the Kano Division of the Federal High Court.
The assets are part of proceeds of N8.5billion for the military Operation Pulo Shield in the Niger Delta, which he was accused of diverting from the military between September 5, 2014 and May 20, 2015.
Atewe is being prosecuted by the EFCC alongside Patrick Akpobolokemi, a former Director-General of Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, NIMASA, Kime Enzogu and Josephine Otuaga on a 22-count charge of conspiracy, stealing and money laundering.
Moving the application for the final forfeiture of the properties, the EFCC counsel, Rotimi Oyedepo, SAN, had argued that it would be in the interest of justice for the court to grant the 11 prayers being sought and also order the final forfeiture of same to the Federal Government.
Ruling on the application today, Justice Aneke granted the EFCC’s prayers and also ordered the final forfeiture of the properties to the Federal Government.
The judge, however, refused the EFCC’s prayer seeking the final forfeiture of the sum of N290 million.
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.

For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

