Sudan Crisis: Another batch of evacuees expected on Sunday — NiDCOM
Most of the students interviewed regretted the war situation in Sudan and thanked the Federal Government for coming promptly to their rescue.
The Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NiDCOM) says another flight with a batch of evacuees is expected on Sunday, with conclusion ongoing on necessary clearance for take off.
This was contained in a statement by Abdur-Rahman Balogun, head of Media, Public Relations and Protocols, NiDCOM on Saturday.
Mr Balogun said this was part of the highlights of the inter-ministerial briefing on the return of the fourth batch of evacuees from Sudan at the Hajj Terminal of the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport.
The 131 batch of evacuees comprising 123 adults and eight infants aboard Tarco Aircraft: B737-300 from Port Sudan International Airport, arrived at 2.35p.m in Abuja.
Three of the evacuees, who sustained injuries, were moved to the hospital.
One had an injury in the hand while another one had abdominal pain.
All of them have been stabilised.
A batch of Evacuees: 130 Nigerian nationals; 128 females and 2 males that departed Port Sudan International Airport landed at Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport Abuja at 3:15 pm via Tarco Airline B737-300 Aircraft. [PHOTO: TW @nidcom_gov]The evacuees were, however, assured that no Nigerian would be left behind.
Those who received them included Abike Dabiri-Erewa, chairperson NiDCOM, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Sani Gwarzo, and the Representative of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mustapha Habeeb.
Others included Mustapha Habib Ahmed, Director-General National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), Representative of Refugees Commissioner, Iman Ibrahim, and other stakeholders.
They provided logistics support like Nigeria Immigration Service, Dangote Foundation, MTN, and Hajia Asmau Yerima Mohammed who represented the Association of Parents and Guardian of Students in Sudan.
According to the statement, President Muhammadu Buhari gave the committee the necessary support to bring back any willing Nigerians.
The committee also reiterated that there was no ethnic segregation as speculated in some quarters and it remained focused on its mandate.
Moreover, post-trauma counselling and psycho-social treatment were announced again.
The post-trauma counselling and psycho-social treatment are planned by NiDCOM, with the Ministry of Health, and Refugees Commission in partnership with the Aliko Dangote Foundation.

In line with the traditional support laid down, each of the returnees was given N100,000 and a bag courtesy of the Dangote Foundation while MTN supported with a SIM pack and call credit of N25,000 and 1.5 gigabytes of data.
Both the NEMA and the Refugees Commission provided transportation and hotel accommodation for those of them whose families were not in Abuja, till they reunite with their respective families.


The committee also assured them that there were plans to secure placement for them to continue with their education in their respective courses in Nigeria with the support of the Ministry of Education.
Most of the students interviewed regretted the war situation in Sudan and thanked the Federal Government for coming promptly to their rescue.
They also pleaded with the government to hasten the evacuation of their colleagues still trapped in Sudan.
(NAN)
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

