Tinubu congratulates King Charles, calls for strong relationship between UK, Nigeria
King Charles was crowned King of England on Saturday.
President-elect, Bola Tinubu, on Saturday sent a congratulatory message to the newly coronated King of the United Kingdom, King Charles lll, and called for stronger ties between Nigeria and the UK.
Mr Tinubu, who will be sworn in as the president of Nigeria on 29 May, in his message to the monarch, said a strong bilateral relationship between Nigeria and Britain is in the interests of the two countries.
According to Mr Tinubu, there have been back-channel communications between him and the new monarch through mutual friends.
“I look forward to further engagements with you and the opportunity of a meeting in the nearest future as both of us had earlier indicated in discussions with mutual friends and associates,” Mr Tinubu said while congratulating the new monarch.
Charles was proclaimed King in September 2022 upon the death of his mother, Queen Elizabeth II. He was crowned on Saturday.
Read the letter in full:
King Charles
Your Majesty King Charles III,
CONGRATULATIONS ON YOUR CORONATION
The splendour of British monarchy and the rich tradition came to the fore again on Saturday and the world literally came to a standstill as you are crowned the new British King, with the appellation of King Charles III.
By way of this letter, therefore, I convey to you my warmest congratulations on your coronation.
It is heartwarming that your accession to the throne is coming after the 70-year-reign of your iconic mother, Queen Elizabeth II, whose death last September left the entire world in grief, given her eventful reign.
Bearing your unique place in history as the first King to be inaugurated in Britain since 1937, I trust that you will follow in the glorious footsteps of your late mother and even surpass her achievements in the United Kingdom and the Commonwealth.
Particularly remarkable about you is your love for the environment, importantly your lifelong crusade for sustainability and biodiversity.
I hope that you will continue to push for these initiatives with kind eyes on the situation and plight of the underprivileged people in Africa and around the world.

As the President-elect of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, I also hope that during your reign, the excellent bilateral relationship between Nigeria and Britain will continue and even become stronger in the interests of our two countries.
I look forward to further engagements with you and the opportunity of a meeting in the nearest future as both of us had earlier indicated in discussions with mutual friends and associates.


Once again, I rejoice with you on your coronation and pray that God Almighty grant you strength and wisdom and make your reign successful for the benefit of not only the people of the Great Britain but for the entire world.
Please rest assured of my highest regards always.
Sincerely yours,
Asíwájú Bola Ahmed Tinubu,
President-elect,
Federal Republic of Nigeria
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

