Electoral lessons learnt from 2023 will make subsequent polls better – Buhari
Mr Buhari says the elections saw a remarkable turnout of voters and proof that Nigeria’s democracy is maturing.
President Muhammadu Buhari has again expressed satisfaction with the conduct of the 2023 general elections in Nigeria, considering the turnout of voters and the generally peaceful atmosphere under which it took place.
The president, who stated this while addressing his colleagues at the Commonwealth Leaders Summit on Friday in London, said the country learnt lessons which would make subsequent polls even better.
A statement on Friday in Abuja by Femi Adesina, the president’s spokesperson, said the summit was part of the major events leading to the coronation of His Majesty, King Charles III as King of the United Kingdom and Leader of the Commonwealth.
The theme of the event focused on the future of the Commonwealth as a body and the role of the youth.
The Nigerian leader said: ”These elections saw a remarkable turnout of voters and proof that Nigeria’s democracy is maturing.
”Despite some pockets of violence, we have demonstrated that a government can be elected peacefully and fairly.
“Lessons have been learnt and moving forward, we hope to perform even better.
”Based on this, I am delighted to note that we have taken another step towards deepening our democracy with peaceful, transparent and credible outcomes.
”Though we are aware that challenges still exist, we are committed to working towards a greater participation of all Nigerians in the democratic process, including those in the diaspora.”
While thanking the Commonwealth for sending a team to witness the conduct of the elections, he noted that the elections were generally free and fair.
According to him, the mood of the nation after the announcement of the winners so far shows that democracy in Nigeria is maturing and can only get better.
Mr Buhari highlighted the key role Nigerian youths played during the elections as well as in support of national development.
He attributed a great part of the youth participation in the general elections to the assent of ‘Not Too Young To Run’ Bill signed into law by his administration in 2018.
He announced that Nigeria would also host the Commonwealth Youth and Students Summit for African Region, with the theme, ‘Making Change Happen’, in Abuja from May 9-11, this year.
The Nigerian leader used the opportunity to bid farewell to his colleagues, expressing joy at shared aspirations and values within the period.

“As I come before you today, I am also mindful that this would be my last official engagement with His Majesty The King and some of you as I leave office on 29 May 2023.
”I, therefore, feel both humble and grateful for this extraordinary and significantly important moment.


“Over the years, I have worked cordially with the leaders of Commonwealth to achieve the values and principles of the Commonwealth which are shared by its members.
”The aspirations of the Commonwealth family, which include positioning it to be a strong and respected voice in the world and improving the lives of all its citizens, are being vigorously pursued,” he said.
(NAN)
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

