Senate Presidency: Contest will be based on constitutional provisions – Aspirant
“What is going to happen that day, it is going to happen based on the instructions of the constitution and not for anyone.”
Senator-elect, Abdulaziz Yari, says the contest for the position of the president of the 10th Senate will be based on constitutional provisions and not instructions by anyone.
Mr Yari, a former governor of Zamfara State, said this on Friday while meeting with the executives of the Tinubu Shettima Network (TSN), headed by its National Chairman, Kailani Muhammad, in Abuja.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Mr Yari had declared his intention to contest for the position of president of the 10th Senate.
The senator-elect described the contest as senators’ business, backed by the constitution to choose their leaders within themselves.
“The senate presidency is senators’ business and on the ‘D- day’ when we are going to elect our president, we will do the needful.
“When we do that, we are not for anybody. We are doing what the constitution says that we should take our leader within ourselves.
“That is what the sections of the constitution stated very clearly. What is going to happen that day, it is going to happen based on the instructions of the constitution and not for anyone.
“So, we are going to exercise our constitutional rights there,” Mr Yari said.
He commended the TSN for supporting his cause to become the president of the 10th Senate, saying that the group’s work in the area of mobilisation support for his cause was commendable.
According to him, this is a special session we have with the TSN leadership. If we can recall four weeks ago, I was in their office where I declared my intention to contest for senate presidency.
“I was there to seek their support and all the executives of the body gave their commitments that they were going to give me support for this contest.
“And today, we are to review what happened from then to where we are here today.
“From what we have been seeing and receiving from the media shows clearly that the work is in progress and very excellent. So, the organisation is doing very well,” Mr Yari said.
In his remarks, Mr Muhammad said the purpose of the meeting was to brief Mr Yari on how far the group had gone in terms of mobilisation, adding that it achieved over 70 per cent of the work.
He expressed optimism that the senator-elect who participated in the sixth Senate would by the Grace of God emerge as president of the Senate.

(NAN)
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

