Troops eliminate 30 terrorists, apprehend 48
DHQ says the terrorists were eliminated in North-west and North-central in the last two weeks.
Defence Headquarters says troops of the armed forces have in the last two weeks eliminated 30 terrorists and bandits and apprehended 48 in various operations across the North-central and North-west.
The Director, Defence Media Operations, Musa Danmadami, said this on Thursday in Abuja at the bi-weekly news conference on the operations of the armed forces.
In the North-central, Mr Danmadami, a major general, said troops of Operation Safe Haven and other operations conducted operational activities at different locations and villages in Benue, Nasarawa, Plateau, Niger States as well as FCT during the period.
He said the troops within the period, neutralised five terrorists, arrested 10 and rescued three abducted civilians.
In North-west, Mr Danmadami said the land and air components of Operation Hadarin Daji had sustained offensive operations on terrorist enclaves, camps and hideouts within Katsina, Kaduna, Sokoto and Zamfara States.
He said the troops neutralised 25 terrorists, arrested 30 informants, six terrorist logistics suppliers, and two gunrunners and rescued four kidnap victims
He said the troops between 21 April and 25 April engaged in a fierce firefight and neutralised 14 terrorists, including a notorious terrorist kingpin.
He said that a large cache of arms was recovered while two suspected bandits and drug peddlers were apprehended at Wazata village in Birnin Gwari Local Government Area of Kaduna State.
He said preliminary investigation revealed that the suspects were notorious suppliers of ammunition and hard drugs to terrorists.
“Troops recovered 15 rounds of 7.62mm special, eight mobile phones, 105 wraps of substances suspected to be cannabis, 1,032 tablets of tramadol and the sum of N82,800.
“Similarly, on April 23, troops intercepted three terrorist logistics suppliers with one vehicle, and one canter truck loaded with 87 bags of rice at Gusami and Mada villages in Birnin Magaji and Gusau Local Government Areas of Zamfara.
“Preliminary investigation revealed that the bags of rice belong to a terrorist kingpin on the watch list of security agents,” he said.
(NAN)
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.

For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

