UPDATED: WAEC announces date for commencement of 2023 examination
The West African Examinations Council (WAEC) announced this at a pre-examination press briefing Thursday in Lagos.
The 2023 school-based West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE) will hold for seven weeks, spanning 8 May to 23 June.
The West African Examinations Council (WAEC) announced this at a pre-examination press briefing Thursday in Lagos.
The Head of National Office, Patrick Areghan, in his remarks, noted that a total of 1,621,853 candidates across 20,851 government and private schools registered for the examination.
The new development is coming as the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) is rounding off the 2023 edition of its entrance examinations into tertiary institutions.
JAMB conducts the Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) for admission seekers nationwide, and this year’s examination which was scheduled to hold between 25 April and 2 May has been extended to Saturday 6
May for candidates who missed the examination for genuine reasons.
According to Mr Areghan, the registered candidates for 2023 increased by 13,868 over the figure of 2022, which was 1,607,985.
Out of the registered number, the HNO said 798,810 are males, amounting to 49.25 per cent, while 823,043 are females, which is 50.75 per cent.
He noted that the candidates would be examined in 76 subjects, made up of 197 papers, adding that about 30,000 senior secondary school teachers, nominated by the various states’ education ministries, would be participating in the examination as supervisors.
Mr Areghan said the results of candidates sitting the examination will be released 45 days after the conduct of the last paper, while the certificates will be printed and issued to schools in less than 90 days after the release of results.
The examination council said it has established a self-service system for candidates, through the CHATBOT Platform, to enable them to access their entries.
Mr Areghan explained that the platform is a service on the Request Management System/Chatbot on its official website which he noted allows students to confirm data uploaded for them by schools “in order to make necessary corrections (if any) on such data.”
“It provides two key services on the Request Management System which include Confirmation of Entry/Registration and Confirmation of Continuous Assessment Score (CASS),” he said.
He added that one of the reasons for the establishment of the candidate self-service is to make error identification and correction easy for candidates and all stakeholders;
Speaking further, Mr Areghan said that the National Identification Number (NIN) was only made a component of the registration requirements, “but not compulsory.”

He said: “The policy came into being in line with the directive of the Federal Government. Candidates were expected to supply their NIN at the registration stage, but it was not a compulsory requirement in order to avoid denying many eligible candidates access to the portal/examination.
“Even after the registration exercise, candidates were still allowed to submit their NIN for upload. Therefore, no candidate was disqualified from registration as a result of non-submission of NIN at the beginning of the exercise, or, even later.”


The HNO, however, noted that the Continuous Assessment Score (CASS) score is a major component in the computation of grades for candidates in the WASSCE (SC) examination.
Mr Areghan also stated that no school would have any result without a complete CASS upload.
“Currently, the Council allows the upload of CASS data in SS1, SS2 and SS3, designated as CASS Year 1, CASS Year II and CASS Year III at different upload periods,” he said.
On examination malpractice, Mr Areghan reiterated that the penalties will be meted out to erring candidates, invigilators, supervisors, schools, and WAEC officials, as it would be approved by the Nigeria Examinations Committee (NEC).
NEC is WAEC’s highest decision-making organ that sits on examination matters in Nigeria.
“Every candidate and examination functionary must play by the rules, which are well stipulated in the WAEC Syllabus and Guidelines for the conduct of examinations, issued to schools,” Mr Areghan said adding that erring candidates would lose their results.
On the state of insecurity in the country, Mr Areghan said the examination body is “liaising with the Inspector General of Police, Brigade Commanders, other security agencies and the various State governments to provide security in order to ensure that the examination is conducted under a secure and safe environment.”
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

