Group launches Public Interest Media Fund to safeguard Press Freedom, Democracy
The non-governmental organisation explains that the creation of the fund was a reaction to the eroding advertising-based business model.
Cape Town — The International Fund for Public Interest Media (IFPIM) has launched the International Fund for Public Interest Media, an initiative intended to support public interest media around the world. The non-governmental organisation explains that the creation of the fund was a reaction to the eroding advertising-based business model, something that was exacerbated by the Covid-19 pandemic which saw shrinking revenues. In 2020, newspapers alone suffered a global revenue loss of $30 billion.
At the 2022 Paris Peace Forum, Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs Catherine Colonna reaffirmed France’s commitment to IFPIM following President Macron’s endorsement of the Fund. France will host the International Fund’s headquarters in Paris and provide up to €15 million in support to the Fund for between 2022 and 2024. The IFPIM aims for the fund to support low and middle-income countries while forging a sustainable future for global media ecosystems.
According to the IFPIM, only 0.3 per cent of overseas development assistance (ODA) — around $430 million — goes to supporting media globally. The non-governmental organisation adds that, amid political threats to journalists and independent reporters, only 13 per cent of the world’s population have access to free media. The consequences of eroded public interest are potentially catastrophic, the IFPIM warns, with serious implications for electoral politics, corruption, and meeting the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which are increasingly endangered by growing misinformation.
The Fund is structured to enable a broad multilateral coalition to unlock new resources in support of public interest media globally while maintaining the independence of both the Fund and its public interest grantees.
Co-chaired by Maria Ressa, Nobel Peace Prize winner and co-founder and CEO of Rappler, and Mark Thompson, former president and CEO of The New York Times Company, its mission is to ensure a complete shift in how public interest media is resourced, with the greater of ensuring it is independent, inclusive and resilient.
“When independent media is weakened, it impacts all of society and threatens democracy. Corruption can be expected to rise. Violent extremism — often fueled by corruption — finds more fertile ground. Social cohesion is diminished, particularly where media falls into the hands of those who co-opt it to advance their own political or factional agendas. Conflict and instability become more likely. To avoid the collapse of vital independent media, we need a more coordinated global response that creates a step change in support,” the IFPIM said.
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

