NAFDAC reassures Nigerians on locally produced Indomie instant noodles
According to the DG, “NAFDAC did not ban Indomie Instant Noodles produced in Nigeria. NAFDAC has registered several local manufacturers and the Indomie noodles have been certified safe for consumption. The Taiwan and Malaysia noodles have nothing to do with our local producers.”
The National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) has refuted reports making the rounds online that it has banned Indomie Instant Noodles. The regulatory body said this on Monday through its Director-General, Mrs Mojisola Adeyeye, a pharmacist and professor. She remarked that the products flagged by both Taiwan and Malaysian health authorities for having traces of ethylene oxide are not registered in Nigeria. NAFDAC has said it will conduct tests on noodles produced in Nigeria to ensure that they do not contain ethylene oxide.
According to the Director-General, “NAFDAC did not ban Indomie Instant Noodles produced in Nigeria. NAFDAC has registered several local manufacturers and the Indomie noodles have been certified safe for consumption. The Taiwan and Malaysia noodles have nothing to do with our local producers.”
The statement offers assurance to consumers who have been exposed to a series of misleading publications that the product was banned by the regulator. The flood of local publications came up after the alleged detection of ethylene oxide, a cancer-causing substance found in Indomie’s “special chicken” flavour in Taiwan, and Malaysia by health officials in both countries.
Speaking on the issue, the Group Corporate Communications and Event Manager, Dufil Prima Foods Limited, Tope Ashiwaju, said, “We would like to assure our valued customers in Nigeria that all packs of Indomie Instant Noodles consumed in Nigeria are produced locally under strict international best manufacturing procedures with ISO certified standards.
Our commitment to international good manufacturing processes is unwavering and the quality in every pack of instant noodles produced in all our factories in Nigeria is non-negotiable.”
“We adhere strictly to the standard procedures set by the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) and the Standards Organization of Nigeria (SON) in all our manufacturing processes. “We use only the finest ingredients, sourced from reputable suppliers, and our production facilities are regularly inspected and audited to ensure that they meet the highest standards,” he said.
The Indomie Instant Noodles consumed in Nigeria is produced locally by Dufil Prima Foods Limited and had produced Indomie Instant Noodle in Nigeria for almost three decades.
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

