Buhari inaugurates N9.5bn housing estate in Abuja
Mr Buhari said the housing project is part of government’s efforts to curb poverty and provide shelter for citizens.
President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday inaugurated a N9.5 billion Zuba Housing Estate in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT).
The president while inaugurating the 746 housing unit estate, said it would help check multi-dimensional poverty in the country.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the N9.5 billion estate which is located on 18.5 hectares of land consists of 16 blocks of 3-bedroom flats in a block of 8 flats.
Others are 32 blocks of 2-bedroom flats in a block of 8 flats; 14 blocks of 1-bedroom flats in a block of 16 flats and 5 blocks of terrace duplexes in 4 rows.
Mr Buhari said the provision of houses was one of the best ways to attack poverty, create prosperity and develop the economy.
He said that the project was part of government’s efforts to curb poverty and provide shelter for citizens.
‘‘I convey my hearty congratulations to the new homeowners in this estate. Our promise of change has been fulfilled for you.
‘‘Housing supply is one of the indices of multi-dimensional poverty that challenges our people and the completion of this estate provides a solution for the beneficiaries.
‘‘The new homeowners who benefit from this estate have taken a step up on the ladder of prosperity and away from poverty,” he said.
He commending the Chairman, Managing Director, members of the Board and Staff of Federal Housing Authority (FHA) on the successful completion of the Estate.
Mr Buhari said the project was another testament to his administration’s commitment to lifting people out of poverty.
‘‘One of the measures that we have consciously deployed to attack poverty, create prosperity and develop our economy is the aggressive provision of infrastructure nationwide.
“Such investments also lead to creating employment opportunities for artisans and other skilled members of the society.”
He urged the management of FHA not to relent in delivering other projects at various stages of construction and development across the states.
The president also charged residents of the estate to consciously work together with the FHA to ensure the maintenance of the property and the safety of the environment.

Also speaking, Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, said 75 contractors were engaged in the course of the project, while over 13,000 Nigerians were employed both directly and indirectly.
He thanked the president for providing the leadership through his approval of appointments to the leadership of the FHA Board and management.


‘‘Instead of abandoned projects, we now have 748 completed housing units for Nigerians and their families to shelter.
‘‘Although many of the beneficiaries of this project will never meet the president personally, your policies and programmes have affected their lives,” he said.
The Managing Director, FHA, Gbenga Ashafa, described the project as a manifestation of the president’s visionary and deliberate housing policy.
He said the Authority delivered the project at a total cost of N9.5 billion with the subvention of N7.5 billion from the federal government.
Mr Ashafa said that the balance of N2 billion of construction cost came from the Authority’s other projects which was ploughed into it to complete the estate.
(NAN)
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

