Buhari writes Senate, seeks confirmation of Abike Dabiri-Erewa as NiDCOM chair
Mr Buhari also seeks the confirmation of the nomination of six federal commissioners for the Revenue Mobilisation Allocation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC).
President Muhammadu Buhari has asked the Senate to confirm the appointment of Abike Dabiri-Erewa as the chairperson of the Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NiDCOM) for a second term in office.
The president’s request was contained in a letter read by Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, at the plenary session on Tuesday.
Mr Lawan read the letter after the senators emerged from a closed-door session, which lasted for about one hour.
Mrs Dabiri-Erewa is a former member of the House of Representatives where she represented Ikorodu constituency, Lagos State.
She had also served as senior special assistant to the president on foreign affairs and diaspora.
She was the pioneer chairperson of NiDCOM, an agency under the federal ministry of foreign affairs.
In a separate letter read by the Senate President, Mr Buhari also requested the senate to confirm the nomination of six federal commissioners for the Revenue Mobilisation Allocation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC).
The nominees include Ayogu Eze (Enugu State), Peter Opara (Imo State), and Hauwa Aliyu (Jigawa State).
The president, in another letter, also asked the upper legislative chamber to pass the Amended Financial Bill 2022 into law.
The upper chamber resumed on Tuesday after observing a few weeks of recess to participate in the 2023 general elections.
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999


