Ekiti political rivals, Gov Oyebanji, Oni in crucial meeting in Ifaki
The meeting at Mr Oni's residence in Ifaki-Ekiti lasted several hours.
A private meeting between Governor Biodun Oyebanji and his main opponent in last year’s governorship election, Segun Oni of the Social Democratic Party, is causing excitement in Ekiti State.
Mr Oni pursued his petition against the victory of Mr Oyebanji in the election to the Supreme Court.
But the apex court upheld the decisions of the tribunal and Court of Appeal in affirming the governor as duly elected.
The meeting between the two men on Tuesday, at Mr Oni’s residence in Ifaki-Ekiti, lasted several hours.
Both leaders declined interviews with journalists at the end of the meeting.
It is believed tha Mr Oyebanji visited to extend the hands of fellowship to Mr Oni.
However, the spokespersin for the Segun Oni Campaign Organisation, Jackson Adebayo, told PREMIUM TIMES that there was no discussion of a truce.
He said Mr Oyebanji was only showing respect by paying a visit to the former governor.
“There was no meeting, but a visit,” Mr Adebayo said.
“The governor was visiting Ido-Osi, and in a show of courtesy decided to pay a visit to Segun Oni.
“There is nothing serious about that, even recently the South West arm of the PDP came to pay a visit. Everyone is welcome.”
Mr Adebayo added that Mr Oni’s “political family” would take a decision on the next line of action to be taken by the former governorship candidate.
Mr Oyebanji, while speaking on the wake of the Supreme Court victory, restated his respect for Mr Oni, who is a former governor of the state and former chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC).
He had urged Mr Oni to join him in the development of the state, having explored the judicial process over his grievances on the election.
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility

Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

