Sanwo-Olu unveils Lagos’ first set of electric buses
Governor Sanwo-olu announced the delivery of the first set of electric buses for the Lagos State mass transit scheme.
The Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has announced the arrival of the first set of electric buses for the state’s mass transit scheme.
Mr Sanwo-Olu made the announcement on Sunday via his Twitter handle.
“I am excited to announce the first set of electric buses in the Lagos Mass Transit Master Plan as part of our increased effort to modernise every sector of Lagos,” he tweeted.
“Thanks to our partnership with @Oando_PLC, Lagosians can expect a cleaner and greener public transportation system.
“With the ability to travel 280km at full charge, taking into account our unique travel times in Lagos, our electric buses are a game-changer.
“With an average daily usage of 200km by existing BRTs, there is no need to fear that the buses can stop while in transit.”
The governor said the new electric buses will reduce carbon emissions and also increase efficiency.
“This means that Lagosians can say goodbye to high fuel costs and hello to cost-efficient transportation. We shall be running a pilot scheme over the next few months to gather sufficient data required to analyse the operational efficiencies relative to the current BRT buses to further improve our public transport service,” he said.
“This collaboration is a testament to our commitment to creating a sustainable future for Lagos.”
Speaking on how the electric buses will be charged, Mr Sanwo-Olu said the government will partner with Oando Clean Energy Limited to “strategically place Universal Chargers at public places like malls and gas stations.
“We also plan to establish an Assembly Plant for Electric Buses in the near future.”
The governor who promised to increase the fleet of electric vehicles in the state said that the move is part of the government’s effort to transform the state into a smart city.
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.

By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

