UPDATED: NNPP withdraws petition against Governor Abiodun’s reelection
NNPP had asked the tribunal to void the Ogun governorship poll over the omission of its name on the ballot paper.
The New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP) has withdrawn its petition against the reelection of Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State.
The party had filed the petition against Mr Abiidun, the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) over the 18 March election.
The chairman of the party in the state, Sunday Oginni, announced the development on Sunday at a press conference held at the party’s secretariat in Abeokuta.
The petition had alleged the omission of the party’s name on the ballot paper for the governorship election by INEC.
This, according to the party, was a violation of the Electoral Act.
But, on Sunday, Mr Oginni said the party noticed that the same ballot papers used in Ogun State were also used in Kano State where the NNPP defeated the ruling APC.
He added that going ahead with the petition could be counterproductive against the interest of the party.
The party chairman also alleged plans to hijack the petition by some powers that be within the party at the national level.
“The petition is now dead and buried. As a party, we will go back to the drawing board ahead of 2027 and we hope to get it right,” he said.
“We believed in the potency of that petition and if the petition survives, it will alter the political calendar of Ogun State and bring disruption to the political system in the state.
“We know that despite the absence of name of our party on the ballot papers we still managed to win election in some states.
“As we are celebrating with our dear brothers in other states for their victory, we don’t want to create another problem for their victory by bringing issues that may create Constitutional problems and counter-productive to the development of the party.
“Nevertheless, we believe that INEC must always be up and doing, and they must put attention to details to ensure that things are properly done for all political parties.”
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.

For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

