Speakership Race: Gagdi meets Labour Party members-elect
LP has the third highest number of members-elect of the House with a total of 36 out of 360.
Yusuf Gagdi, an aspirant for the position of the Speaker of the 10th House of Representatives, on Friday, met with members-elect on the platform of the Labour Party in Abuja in the quest to actualise his ambition.
The meeting held in the Maitama District of the Federal Capital, was at the instance of Mr Gagdi.
The details of decisions reached at the meeting were not however not disclosed to journalists. It could not ascertain if the LP lawmakers-elect pledged support for the aspirant.
LP has the third highest number of members-elect of the House. The party has 36 seats, trailing the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) which have 177 and 116 respectively.
PREMIUM TIMES had reported that Mr Gagdi met with the Abia State governor-elect of the Labour Party, Alex Otti, as he targets the 36 members-elect of the party.
Mr Gagdi, a member of the APC represents Pankshin/Kanam/Kanke Federal Constituency of Plateau State. He is the Chairman of the House Committee on Navy.
Before his election to the House of Representatives, he had served as the deputy speaker of Plateau State House of Assembly.
He is one of the 10 aspirants that have declared interest in the speakership battle.
Other aspirants include Deputy Speaker Idris Wase (APC, Plateau), Ben Kalu (APC, Abia), Muktar Betara (APC, Borno), Sada Soli (APC, Katsina), Tunji Olawuyi (APC, Kwara) and Abubakar Makki (APC, Jigawa).
Others are Tajudeen Abbas (APC, Kaduna), Aminu Jaji (APC, Zamfara), and Miriam Onuoha (APC, Imo).
Although the ruling party has yet to decide on the zoning of the offices, the APC Governors have recommended the zoning of the Speaker to either North-west or North-central.
The inauguration of the 10th House is scheduled for 13 June.
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.

By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

