Nigerian university appoints new registrar
Until her latest appointment, Mrs Okorie was the Acting Director of Information and Public Relations of the university.
The Governing Council of the University of Uyo has approved the appointment of Blossom Okorie as the substantive registrar of the institution.
The council, led by Bernadette Nwachukwu as chairman, approved Mrs Okorie’s appointment on Friday, said a statement by the acting registrar , Linus Okoko.
Until her latest appointment, Mrs Okorie was the Acting Director of Information and Public Relations of the University.
She is the 8th substantive registrar of the institution.
“The new Registrar is expected to assume duty on 1 May 1,” the statement said.
The new registrar holds a Bachelors of Arts and Masters of Arts in English Language.
She began her career as Mistress II in Community Comprehensive Secondary School, Uyo, Akwa Ibom State in 1994 and later transferred her service to the University of Uyo in 2000.
At the university, she climbed the ladder of the administrative cadre and gained experience and rose to the position of a Deputy Registrar and Secretary, College of Health Sciences in 2018.
She was the Deputy Registrar and Head of Unit, Directorate of Information and Public Relations before her new appointment.
She has served as either Secretary, Member or Chairperson of several committees and panels of the university.
She is a member of professional bodies, such as the Association of Nigerian Universities Professional Administrators (ANUPA), Nigerian Institute of Management (NIM), and a Fellow of Institute of Corporate Administration.
Qosim Suleiman is a reporter at Premium Times in partnership with Report for the World, which matches local newsrooms with talented emerging journalists to report on under-covered issues around the globe.
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.

By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

