Why Nigeria plays stabilising role in Africa – Buhari
Mr Buhari says Nigeria’s size and resources have imposed on her a stabilising role in the West African subregion and the African continent as a whole.
President Muhammadu Buhari says Nigeria’s size and resources have imposed on her a stabilising role in the West African subregion and the African continent as a whole.
Speaking after receiving a message from President Ibrahim Ghali of the Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic, SADR from a Special Envoy at the State House Friday, Mr Buhari said peace and stability are central to the vision of Nigeria in Africa, adding that these were essential to security and prosperity in the continent.
He thanked the president of the Sahrawi Republic for the message he sent and gave an assurance that he will study its content and brief the in-coming president, Bola Tinubu, on their concerns, urging the special envoy to make the effort to brief the in-coming president as well.
The Special Envoy, Mohammed Saleh, who is a former minister of foreign affairs, now minister of diplomatic affairs, recalled the role of Mr Buhari, in 1983 as military head of state, as being the first African leader to recognise the Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic, paving the way thereby, for its recognition by the Organisation of African Unity, now African Union.
“History will not forget your important role in leading the fight for African freedom using money, arms and diplomacy in the African Union and the United Nations to secure independence for South Africa, Zimbabwe and Namibia for, without this, these nations would not have been free,” the envoy said.
Mr Saleh expressed the sadness of his country in Mr Buhari leaving office and expressed the hope that the Tinubu government will maintain the same interest in the independence struggle. He urged the president to continue to maintain relevance in the affairs of the SADR and that of the entire continent.
Mr Buhari accepted the request of the president of the Sahrawi Republic to participate in the inaugural events ushering in the new Nigerian president in May.
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

