Wike, Makinde visit Tinubu, pledge support for incoming administration
Messrs Wike and Makinde are members of the G5 governors, including Samuel Ortom of Benue, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu and Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia States, all members of the PDP.
The governors of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike and Oyo State, Seyi Makinde on Friday paid a visit to the President-elect Bola Tinubu, at the Defence House, Abuja.
Messrs Wike and Makinde, who are members of the opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), met with the president-elect alongside other governors of the All Progressives Congress (APC).
The APC governors are Abubakar Bagudu of Kebbi State, Abubakar Badaru of Jigawa and Bello Matawalle of Zamfara State.
Briefing journalists after the meeting, Mr Makinde said elections are over, and the country must move toward governance.
“We are here to let him know that elections are over – this is governance and we will do our best to give him support,” Mr Makinde said.
Mr Wike also expressed support for the incoming Tinubu administration and expressed optimism that he (Tinubu) will turn the country around.
“Just like my friend (Mr Makinde) said, a winner has emerged and therefore it is alright to give necessary support in the interest of Nigeria. I have the confidence that he has what it takes to turn Nigeria around,” he said.
Messrs Wike and Makinde are members of the G5 governors, which include Samuel Ortom of Benue, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu and Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia States, all members of the PDP.
They worked against their party’s presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, and supported Mr Tinubu of the APC in the 25 February election.
Mr Tinubu won the presidential election in Oyo State, and pulled a surprise result in Rivers State, by defeating Peter Obi of the Labour Party and Atiku.
However, PREMIUM TIMES had reviewed the results posted on the IREV portal by INEC and discovered that Mr Obi, not Mr Tinubu, actually won the election in Rivers State and should have been declared the winner in the state. However, that may not have changed the final outcome of the election.
Meanwhile, Mr Tinubu is expected to be in Rivers on 3 May to commission some projects constructed by the Rivers State Government.
Messrs Obi and Atiku, as well as their parties, are still challenging the result of the presidential election at the election court.
The election court and the Supreme Court are, however, not expected to rule before Mr Tinubu is sworn in as president on 29 May.
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility

Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

