Obasanjo, El-Rufai, Soludo in Kinshasha for Nigeria/ Congo Business Summit.
The team left Nigeria on Thursday for the summit scheduled to begin on Friday in the DRC capital.
Former President Olusegun Obasanjo has led a team of Nigerian businessmen and government officials to Kinshasa for the Democratic Republic of Congo/Nigeria Business Council Summit.
According to a statement by Mr Obasanjo’s media aide, Kehinde Akinyemi, the team left Nigeria on Thursday for the summit scheduled to begin on Friday in the DRC capital.
Members of the team include Governor Charles Soludo of Anambra State and the Executive Secretary of the National Action Committee on the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) and former head of the Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NEPC), Olusegun Awolowo.
Also in the team are Wale Adeosun, an industrialist; and Leke Adebiyi, a diplomat and deputy secretary-general of the council.
They were received on the ground in Kinshasha by the President of the Council and former Director-General of the International Institute for Tropical Agriculture (IITA), Nteranya Sanginga, Nigerian businessman, Jimi Lawal, and representative of Oyo State governor, Debo Akande.
Expected to join at the meeting are Kaduna State Governor and Deputy President of the DRC/Nigeria Business Council, Nasir El-Rufai, Aliko Dangote of the Dangote Group, and Stella Okoli of Emzor Paracetamol among others.
At the last summit held in Lagos in December, President Muhammadu Buhari expressed satisfaction with the establishment of the Council, saying it would boost trade relations between the two countries.
Meanwhile, the deputy secretary of the council, MrAdebiyi, said no fewer than 30 prospective investors from Nigeria,drawn from the health, education, agriculture, communications, power and finance sectors, will be attending the summit.
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

