President Buhari celebrates Mike Adenuga Jnr at 70
President Buhari prays Mr Adenuga grows in health, strength, and continual sound mind.
President Muhammadu Buhari rejoices with consummate businessman and philanthropist, Mike Adenuga, Jnr, on his 70th birthday, April 29, 2023, celebrating the entrepreneur, whose charity and goodwill continue to inspire, attracting local and global recognitions, including three national honours, OON, CON and GCON.
President Buhari affirms the impact of Mr Adenuga’s visionary leadership on Nigeria’s economy, setting the pace for investments in oil and gas, telecoms, real estate, banking, construction and hospitality, with remarkable presence in supporting entertainment, sports and African culture, within and outside the country.
The President extols the philanthropist for his courage, humility and dedication to nation-building, always placing the interest of the nation first, and welfare of the people, by ensuring that all his ventures and investments uphold human values of empathy, appreciation, trust and respect.
As the philanthropist turns a septuagenarian, the President believes the numerous national and global awards are well deserved, including the highest individual honour for a private citizen in Nigeria, GCON, and many others of high note like “The Companion of the Star of Ghana’’ from Ghana and “Commander of the Legion of Honour’’ by French President, Emmanuel Macron.
President Buhari prays that Mr Adenuga, who is Otunba Apesin of Ijebu-land, will grow in health, strength, and continual sound mind.
Femi Adesina
Special Adviser to the President
(Media & Publicity)
April 28, 2023
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999


