Lawmakers ‘forfeited’ constituency project funds for Ebonyi airport – Umahi
The airport is named after President Muhammadu Buhari.
Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi State says that members of the Ebonyi House of Assembly forfeited their three-year constituency project funds for the completion of the state’s new international airport.
Mr Umahi made the disclosure during the test-run of flight operations at the airport christened Muhammadu Buhari International Airport, at Onueke on Thursday.
The governor stated that the assembly led by its Speaker, Francis Nwifuru, made tremendous sacrifices for the actualisation of the airport, which he said cost N36 billion.
“When we were seeking N10 billion to procure equipment for the airport, the speaker recalled the members who were on recess to approve the fund.
The ongoing construction of the international airport in Ebonyi. [PHOTO CREDIT: Francis Nwaze]“The members did not only approve the fund, they also forfeited their three-year constituency project funds to ensure the project is completed,” he said.
He also expressed appreciation to President Muhammadu Buhari for his “unquantified” support towards the realisation of the airport.
“The president approved the sum of N10 billion for the construction of the domestic and international wings of the airport.
“When we were constrained on funds to procure equipment, he directed the Ministry of Finance to source funds for us even if it is a loan.
“The airport is named after Buhari as approved by the House of Assembly and if you say he is not good to you, he is to me and Ebonyi.
“We will continue loving him and before a fortnight, he will be in Ebonyi to inaugurate the project,” he said.
He said the government would prevail on the federal government to take over the airport, which he said had created over 500 jobs, and concession it.
The ongoing construction of the international airport in Ebonyi. [PHOTO CREDIT: Francis Nwaze]“Government is a poor manager of resources but we are seriously interested in the revenue generated from the facility,” he said.
A representative of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority, Oladipo Adebayo called on Ebonyi residents to ensure the maintenance and protection of the airport’s facilities because it has “opened them to the world”.
Speaker of the Ebonyi House of Assembly, Francis Nwifuru thanked God for the project and Mr Umahi for his commitment towards actualising it.
Mr Nwifuru, who is the Ebonyi Governor-elect, said that the governor had put him under severe pressure due to the monumental projects that he would inherit and maintain.

The ongoing construction of the international airport in Ebonyi. [PHOTO CREDIT: Francis Nwaze]Collins Oti, a representative of Air Peace airlines, which two aircraft landed at the airport, urged the state’s incoming administration to maximise the airport’s potentials.
Goodwill messages were delivered at the occasion by a former governor of the state, Martin Elechi, representatives of the clergy, traditional rulers, among others.


(NAN)
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

