Buhari decorates personal security officer with new rank, commends aides
Mr Buhari's chief personal security officer (CPSO) was prompted from the rank of deputy commissioner of police to the full rank of a commissioner.
President Muhammadu Buhari has commended his chief personal security officer (CPSO) and other security officers and personnel on their excellent work towards ensuring his safety and that of his family.
Speaking at a short event on Wednesday in the State House, to decorate the CPSO, Aliyu Musa, with his new rank of Police Commissioner, Mr Buhari said he was very impressed by the officer’s “loyalty and for my personal security. Serving me is very difficult.”
The president commended the Inspector General of Police, Usman Baba, for the “correctness” of his decision to elevate the erstwhile deputy commissioner of police to the full rank of a commissioner, saying, “I am very pleased with his record.”
He charged the newly promoted officer to always remember his training and to exhibit sensitivity while carrying out his duty in his new position.
The new police commissioner was decorated by the president, assisted by the IGP and his spouse, Maryam Ibrahim.
The event was witnessed by the Chief of Defence Staff, Lucky Irabor, the family of the officer and some personal staff of the president.
In his remarks, the newly promoted officer thanked the president and the IGP for the promotion and assured the president of his total loyalty and full commitment to duty.
(NAN)
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

