Man jailed for seven years for pouring acid on ex-girlfriend, lover
Onyekachi Agu was convicted of pouring acid on his former girlfriend, Aishat Adefarati, and her new lover, Monsuru Ahmed.
An Ikeja high court on Wednesday sentenced a 32-year-old carpenter, Onyekachi Agu, to seven years imprisonment for pouring acid on his former girlfriend, Aishat Adefarati, and her new lover, Monsuru Ahmed.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Justice Oyindamola Ogala held that the prosecution proved the one-count charge of grievous harm against Mr Agu.
Mrs Ogala said Mr Agu’s retraction of his confessional statement was an attempt to lie and escape punishment.
According to her, the convict failed to bring to court, his brother, whom he claimed to have been with on the day of the incident.
The judge said: “The defendant tried to mislead the court by claiming to have been with his brother on the said day but he failed to corroborate his evidence by giving the date and day he visited him.
“His ‘brother’ who he tried to use as an alibi, was nowhere to be found to give evidence before this court.
“Pouring a corrosive substance on the victims was never contradicted by the defendant.
“The action of the defendant was considered an intention.
“The victims showed to the court, the level of damage to their bodies.’’
Mr Ogala said the case of the prosecution was premised on circumstantial evidence.
“The testimony of the defendant’s former lover on how she had been harassed and assaulted by him, later led to their separate ways after three years of relationship.
“In view of the evidence before the court, I hereby find the defendant guilty of the charge against him, and he is hereby sentenced to seven years jail term,” Mrs Ogala said.
NAN reports that the convict, in his plea for mercy, told the court that he was sorry, and asked Mr Ahmed, who was present in court, to forgive him.
The prosecution presented four witnesses and tendered several pieces of evidence during the trial, while Mr Agu testified as a sole witness for the defence.
According to the prosecution, the carpenter committed the offence on 3 July 2020 at Gangare Hotel, Mile 12, Lagos, where he traced the ex-girlfriend and her new lover to.

The offence contravenes Section 245 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015.
(NAN)


Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

