Ooni hosts, renames Americans with African root
The Ooni stressed the excitement that comes with identifying the root of one’s origin.
 The Ooni of Ile-Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, on Tuesday played host to some Americans, who traced their root to the Kingdom of Ile-Ife.
The Americans were led to the Ooni by the Asoju Asa of Ile Oodua, Dotun Taylor.
The Ooni stressed the excitement that comes with identifying the root of one’s origin.
“If you take a closer look at yourselves in comparison to your kinsmen and women here, you will agree with me that there is no difference between us.
“The only difference is that my own forefathers missed the boat that yours caught up with.
“So, my dear children, you are welcome home and I pray that the meaningful names you are being bestowed with today will manifest in all your endeavours.
“Luckily for you, your source (Ile-Ife) which is within the Federal Republic of Nigeria is filled with lovely people and it’s a very safe environment,” Mr Ogunwusi said.
He urged them to increase their economic presence in Ile-Ife and exploit the various opportunities for investment.
Earlier, Mr Taylor explained that the visitors are convinced that they are of African origin after a scientific test popularly known as “Ancestral DNA” confirmed that they have a high concentration of the African gene.
“Kabiyesi Alase, this is the product of your consistent investment in the promotion of our prestigious culture and preservation of the Yoruba history.
“This is the commencement of a process that will lead to the naturalization of foreigners who are of black origin to becoming Nigerians and particularly Yoruba sons and daughters.
“We are working with all needed authorities in this regard including the Ministry of Interior and the traditional institution under the leadership of our father, the Ooni,” Mr Taylor said.
Speaking on behalf of the Americans, Delzora Dotson, who is now to be addressed as Delzora Omotilewa Dotson, described the experience as worthwhile.
Mrs Dotson said she can’t wait to tell her friends and family members about her discovery.
“Right now, I am feeling the connection of origination and I am happy to be back home,” she said.

(NAN)
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

