Nigeria police launch portal to curb car theft
The Inspector-General of Police has directed the discontinuation of manual processing and issuance of all CMR documents/certificates and a migration to the digitalized NPF CMR platform.
The Nigeria Police Force (NPF) has launched a rejuvenated digitalised Central Motor Registry (CMR) Information Service to curb the menace of car theft in the country.
A statement by the NPF spokesperson, Olumuyiwa Adejobi, urged Nigerians and residents to utilise the portal effectively.
Mr Adejobi said the digitalised CMRIS will effectively serve the purpose of obtaining additional information from members of the public about stolen vehicles and populating the Stolen Vehicle database so as to ensure that vehicles to be registered by the CMR are not stolen and to aid investigation of stolen vehicles and vehicle-associated incidents.
The full statement of Mr Adejobi is reproduced below.
PRESS RELEASE
NPF REJUVENATES DIGITALIZED CENTRAL MOTOR REGISTRY (CMR) INFORMATION SERVICE
Urges Nigerians, Residents to Utilize Portal Effectively
Sequel to the earlier commissioning of the rejuvenated Central Motor Registry (CMR) Unit of the Nigeria Police Force and flag-off of the 1st Phase (Stolen Vehicle Report Portal), a module in the digitalized Central Motor Registry Information System (CMRIS), by the Inspector-General of Police, IGP Usman Alkali Baba, psc (+), NPM, NEAPS, fdc, CFR, on the 7th of December, 2022, the mandatory registration of vehicle information by the Central Motor Registry since inception about 7 decades ago, which was done manually and therefore fraught with some challenges has now given way to the digitalized Central Motor Registry Information System (CMRIS) for seamless management of information of every motor vehicle and its ownership.
The digitalized CMRIS will effectively serve the purpose of obtaining additional information from members of the public about stolen vehicles and populating the Stolen Vehicle database so as to ensure that vehicles to be registered by the CMR are not stolen and to aid investigation of stolen vehicles and vehicle-associated incidents.
Similarly, owners of motor vehicles operating on Nigeria roads and members of the public are hereby notified that the new procedure for requesting the Nigeria Police Force Central Motor Registry services such as Motor Vehicle Information, Change of Ownership, Change of Engine/Chassis/Body, Change of Colour, International Motor Vehicle Certificate, International Drivers’ Permit, etc. is to create a profile on the CMRIS portal and apply for the desired service via https://cmris.npf.gov.ng/.
The Inspector-General of Police has directed the discontinuation of manual processing and issuance of all CMR documents/certificates and a migration to the digitalized NPF CMR platform. Consequently, all other CMR Certificates hitherto issued by the Nigeria Police Force are therefore no longer valid/recognized forthwith. The IGP urges members of the public to cooperate with the Police as the digitalized CMR platform will provide motor vehicle information for robust and proactive actions in crime prevention, detection, investigation, prosecution, and efforts toward enhancing national security.
CSP OLUMUYIWA ADEJOBI, mnipr, mipra
Force Public Relations Officer,
Force Headquarters,
Abuja.

17th April, 2023
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

