2023 UTME: JAMB reschedules exam for candidates over technical hitches
The examination body urged the affected candidates to re-print their examination slips on Wednesday, 26 April to know their new scheduled venue, date and time.
The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) has rescheduled the ongoing Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) for candidates who couldn’t take their tests on Tuesday due to technical hitches.
The tests, to be administered to about 1.6 million candidates between 25 April and 2 May, commenced nationwide on Tuesday.
Due to technical hitches recorded in some of the accredited computer-based test centres, JAMB announced a rescheduling of tests for affected candidates.
The examination body urged the affected candidates to re-print their examination slips on Wednesday, 26 April to know their new scheduled venue, date and time.
JAMB’s spokesperson, Fabian Benjamin, gave the directive in a statement issued on Tuesday.
The decision, Mr Benjamin said, followed a meeting of the management of the board at the end of Tuesday’s sessions,
“It is to be noted that about 100 centres out of the 708 participating in the 2023 UTME exercise across the country experienced technical challenges that prevented their allotted candidates from successfully taking their examination,” he said.
He said the technical hitches experienced were a result of some innovations deployed by the examination body to “safeguard the sanctity of the examination by checkmating all incidences of examination misconduct being perpetrated and perpetuated by vested interests.”
He added that the technical teams are working to ensure that such challenges were not experienced during the remaining days of the examinations.
Mr Benjamin also assured that no candidate would be denied the right of taking their examination due to any hitches experienced.
PREMIUM TIMES earlier reported how a supervisor at Dantata Universal Services CBT centre at Government Secondary School, Zone 3, said the assessment body was responsible for the delay experienced during the second session of the examination on Tuesday.
The supervisor, Victoria Ebute, said the first session went on smoothly until a technical challenge was experienced during the second session which also led to a delay in the commencement time of the third session.
Other centres visited by our reporters in Lagos and Abuja, however, revealed that there were minimal challenges.
Qosim Suleiman is a reporter at Premium Times in partnership with Report for the World, which matches local newsrooms with talented emerging journalists to report on under-covered issues around the globe
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility

Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

