Court orders release of documents in corruption trial of Usman, Fani-Kayode, others
The trial had begun before Justice Aikawa and witnesses were still being led in evidence until Mr Aikawa was transferred out of the Lagos division.
A Federal High Court on Tuesday ordered the release of processes and documents in the money laundering trial of a former Minister of State for Finance, Nenandi Usman and others to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC).
The prosecutor, Rotimi Oyedepo, made an application before Justice Daniel Osiagor, to release all documentary evidence or processes in the suit, following the decision of an appellate court.
Ms Usman is charged alongside a former Minister of Aviation, Femi Fani-Kayode and Yusuf Danjuma, a former chairman of the Association of Local Governments of Nigeria (ALGON).
Also charged is a company, Jointrust Dimentions Nigeria Ltd.
EFCC had preferred a 17-count charge bordering on N4.6 billion money laundering against them before a former judge, Mohammed Aikawa.
The defendants had each pleaded not guilty to the charges and were granted bail.
The trial had begun before Justice Aikawa and witnesses were still being led in evidence, until Mr Aikawa was transferred out of the Lagos division.
The charge was consequently, re-assigned to a new judge, Daniel Osaigor, and they were consequently, re-arraigned on 24 January 2022.
Again, the trial had since commenced in the case and witnesses were still giving evidence before the court.
However, following an appeal filed by Ms Usman, seeking a transfer of the case on jurisdictional grounds, the court of appeal ruled in favour of the defendant.
When the case was called on Tuesday, Mr Oyedepo announced an appearance for the prosecution, and informed the court of the appellate court’s decision, directing that the case be transferred to the Abuja division of the court.
He, also informed the court that it is still the case of the prosecution adding that the prosecution is still leading evidence as PW 1 was still testifying.
He, consequently, sought an application for the release of all documentary evidence and exhibits in the case to the prosecution, so as to save time and avoid delay
In a short ruling, Justice Osiagor held that in line with the decision of the appellate court, all documentary evidence as well as exhibits tendered, be released to the prosecution.
In the charge, the defendants were alleged to have committed the offences between January and March 2015 in Lagos.

They were alleged to have at various times, unlawfully retained over N4.6 billion which they reasonably ought to have known formed part of the proceeds of unlawful acts of stealing and corruption.
Meanwhile, in counts 15 to 17, Mr Fani-Kayode and one Olubode Oke, who is said to be at large, were alleged to have made cash payments of about N30 million, in excess of the amount allowed by law, without going through a financial institution.


The said payments are alleged to have been made to one Paste Poster Co (PPC) of No 125 Lewis St., Lagos, in excess of amounts allowed by law.
All offences were said to have contravened the provisions of sections 15 (3) (4), 16 (2) (b), and 16 (5) of the Money Laundering (Prohibition) (Amendment) Act, 2012.
(NAN)
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

