US President Joe Biden announces re-election bid
“When I ran for president four years ago, I said we are in a battle for the soul of America. And we still are,” CNN quoted him as saying in the video.
United States President Joe Biden has formally announced his intention to run for a second tenure in 2024.
In a video released on Tuesday, Mr Biden said his quest for reelection is in a bid to continue the battle for the soul of America.
“When I ran for president four years ago, I said we are in a battle for the soul of America. And we still are,” CNN quoted him as saying in the video.
“The question we are facing is whether in the years ahead we have more freedom or less freedom. More rights or fewer? I know what I want the answer to be and I think you do too. This is not a time to be complacent. That’s why I’m running for reelection,” he added.
Mr Biden may once again go head to head with Donald Trump, the immediate past president who had earlier announced his intention to run. Mr Trump is projected to win the Republican Party’s nomination and be the party’s candidate.
There are worries about Mr Biden’s age; at 81 (by November), he is the US’s oldest president. Most Americans and even a majority of Democrats in recent surveys according to CNN have shown little enthusiasm for another Biden run.
“A series of upcoming challenges, from the ongoing war in Ukraine to a still-uncertain economy, could provide hurdles to Biden’s reelection. And now that power in Washington is divided, the GOP-controlled House has largely dashed hopes for major legislative accomplishments in the two years ahead of the 2024 vote,” CNN said.
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

