President-elect Tinubu returns home, says “I’m ready for the task ahead”
The President-elect left the country on 21 March for Paris on a vacation after a hectic campaign and election season.
President-elect Bola Tinubu returned to the country on Monday evening after about a month trip to Paris, France.
He was received by a mammoth crowd of enthusiastic associates and supporters who thronged the Presidential Wing of the Nnamdi Azikwe International Airport, Abuja where his plane touched down.
Mr Tinubu was in company with his wife, Remi Tinubu, and son, Seyi Tinubu, according to a press statement of the office of the president-elect signed by Tunde Rahman
Among those at the airport to receive him were Vice President-elect Kashim Shettima, House of Representatives Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila as well as Governors Simon Lalong (Plateau) and Abubakar Sani-Bello (Niger), former Borno State Governor Ali Modu Sheriff.
Also at the airport were former Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Nuhu Ribadu, APC Deputy National Chairman, North, Senator Abubakar Kyari, Deputy National Chairman, South, Emma Enekwu, and National Woman Leader, Betta Edu.
There were also Senators Barau Jibril, Adeola Olamilekan Yahyi, Opeyemi Bamidele, Dayo Adeyeye, Sabi Abdullahi and Adelere Oriolowo as well as Secretary of the recently-dissolved Presidential Campaign Council, James Faleke, Babajimi Benson and Bayo Onanuga, director of media and publicity in the dissolved Presidential Campaign Council.
Speaking to the crowd who followed him home, the President-elect said: “I’m happy to be back. I have rested, I’m refreshed and I’m ready for the task ahead.
“Forget about what the rumour mill may have told you. I’m strong, very strong.”
Asked about his plans for the country, he said he had been consulting and planning with a view to putting together a strong team so he could hit the ground running once he assumes office on May 29.
The President-elect left the country on 21 March for Paris on a vacation after a hectic campaign and election season amid speculations that he had travelled abroad to attend to his health.
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999


