LASTMA hands over suspected ritualist to police after road accident in Lagos
The suspected ritualist was caught with over one hundred used children's diapers and cash following an accident that left one dead.
A passenger caught with over one hundred used children’s diapers and cash has been handed over to the police after LASTMA rescued three accident victims in the Iyana-Ipaja area of Lagos State.
In a statement signed by Adebayo Taofiq on Monday, the spokesperson of LASTMA said the agency rescued three persons who were severely injured after three vehicles — Mazda commercial vehicle, ‘Keke Marwa’ and a Camry car, crashed at Mosalasi round-about inward Iyana-Ipaja area of the state.
Mr Adebayo said one of the passengers in a commercial tricycle was caught with children’s diapers and different denominations of cash.
“One of the passengers inside the commercial tricycle involved in the accident who was caught with more than 100 pieces of used small children ‘Diapers Pampers’ with a huge sum of money of different denominations was immediately handed over to policemen at the scene of the accident,” the statement read.
According to Mr Adebayo, an investigation into the accident revealed that the driver of the Camry car lost control and collided with the Mazda commercial bus.
“Preliminary investigation revealed that the driver of a white Camry car lost control due to overspeeding and hit a commercial tricycle from the rear while the tricycle went off balance and obstructed another upcoming fully loaded Mazda commercial bus going to Iyana-Ipaja,” Mr Adebayo said.
Mr Adebayo said one passenger died while officials were rushing the victims to the hospital for treatment.
He, however, said the affected vehicles had been taken off the road “to avoid impeding the free flow of traffic and handed over to Policemen from Gowon Estate Divisional Police Headquarters for further investigations.”
The agency’s boss, Bolaji Oreagba, said the crash was a ‘man-made’ accident which could have been prevented if over-speeding was avoided.
He maintained that the government embarked on regular public education on the danger inherent in over-speeding by vehicle owners across the state.
Mr Oreagba warned every motoring public to always ensure that their vehicles are in good condition, particularly the brake before driving on Lagos roads.
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.

TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

