Lagos Road Crash: FRSC urges routine vehicle maintenance
Seven people were burnt to death on Sunday on the Lagos-Ibadan expressway after a bus crashed due to what the FRSC attributed to a brake failure
The Corps Marshal of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Dauda Biu, has advised vehicle owners and operators to ensure routine and regular maintenance of their vehicle to prevent accidents.
Mr Biu specifically enjoined fleet and other commercial vehicle operators, as well as private vehicle owners, to accord vehicle maintenance a major priority.
This is contained in a statement by the Corps Public Education Officer (CPEO), Bisi Kazeem, on Sunday in Abuja.
Mr Biu said it is necessary to check vehicles before plying the road so as to eradicate all incidences of mishap resulting from mechanical deficiencies in vehicles.
He said the caution came following a fatal crash that occurred at World Oil Opic on the Lagos-Ibadan expressway, in Lagos State, on April 23 at 10:45 a.m.
Mr Biu added that the lone crash involved a White Mazda Bus with registration numbers BDG993YG.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that 22 people were involved, comprising of seven male adults, eight female adults, four male children, and three female children.
Out of this number, 14 people got injured (four male adults, five female adults, two male children and three female children).
“In all, a total of seven people were killed comprising of two male adults, three female adults and two male children.
“The main cause of the crash was attributed to brake failure, which resulted to loss of control.”
The corps marshal said the police and the FRSC rescue team collaborated in the operation.
He added that injured persons were rescued to Lagos State Accident and Emergency Centre, Old toll gate, while the dead bodies were deposited at Ogun State University Teaching Hospital (OSUTH) mortuary in Sagamu, Ogun State.
(NAN)
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.

By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

