Police kill kidnap suspect in Ebonyi, rescue victim
Nigeria’s secret police, the SSS, were involved in tracking the victim’s location, the police say.
Police in Ebonyi State on Sunday said they rescued a kidnap victim and killed one suspect in the state.
The police spokesperson in the state, Onome Onovwakpoyeya, who disclosed this in a statement in Abakaliki, said the officers arrested two suspected kidnappers and recovered three rifles.
The Commissioner of Police in the state, Faleye Olaleye, mobilised the police tactical teams and a divisional police officer for a rescue operation – they cordoned off a marked area – after receiving a distress call on Sunday about the kidnap of a cleric in the state.
Nigeria’s secret police, the SSS, were involved in tracking the victim’s location, the police said.
“The kidnappers were intercepted along Ndofia Ishieke and Edupfu Egbu Ishieke in Ebonyi Local Government Area, where they abandoned the victim and took to their heels while exchanging gunshots with the Police to pave (the) way for their escape.
“Unfortunately, they were overpowered by the superior firepower of the Police, which led to one of them being neutralised and the arrest of two principal suspects,” Ms Onovwakpoyeya, a superintendent of police, said.
The police spokesperson said two AK 47 rifles and one other rifle as well as two vehicles, including that of the victim, were recovered.
The police warned criminals in the state to surrender or leave the state.
(NAN)
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999


