FRSC warns about fake recruitment via LinkedIn
Ms Williams advised interested applicants to visit FRSC verified portal: www.recruitment.frsc.gov.ng where the application does not attract any fee.
Corps Commander Selina Williams, the Taraba Sector Commander of FRSC, on Sunday, alerted the state residents of a fake LinkedIn account circulating over the corps’ ongoing recruitment process.
Ms Williams, who disclosed this in a statement in Jalingo, explained that the alert became necessary following the wide circulation of the fake account with the name of Corps Marshal Dauda Biu.
According to her, the fake LinkedIn account has the WhatsApp number 07069777732 and is intended to defraud innocent members of the public under the guise of offering them employment.
Ms Williams advised interested applicants to visit FRSC verified portal: www.recruitment.frsc.gov.ng where the application does not attract any fee.
“FRSC recruitment process is on and there is a fake LinkedIn account operating on Whatsapp number: 07069777732 under the name of Corps Marshal Dauda Biu with the intent to defraud innocent members of the public in the guise of offering them employment.
“I enjoin prospective applicants or members of the public in Taraba to be wary of such fake accounts and disregard it,” she said.
Ms Williams also noted that the corps, in synergy with sister security agencies in the state, had put in place strategies for a hitch-free Eld-el-Fitr 2023 celebration.
She noted that FRSC was committed to guaranteeing Taraba people a safe motoring environment during and after Sallah periods.
Ms Williams appealed to motorists to cooperate with the corps by obeying traffic laws and regulations such as properly fixing and servicing their vehicles meant for long trips to prevent unnecessary breakdowns on the road.
(NAN)
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999


