Gbajabiamila, Wase mourn Taraba Rep-elect
Yushau Maihanchi, a member of the PDP, was elected to represent Jalingo, Yerro, and Zing Federal Constituency of Taraba State.
The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, has expressed sadness over the demise of a member-elect from Taraba State, Yushau Maihanci.
The speaker, in a statement by his spokesperson, Lanre Lasisi on Saturday, said the 37 years old politician was ready to serve the country.
“…from the little that I was told about the late Maihanci, the Taraba politician was one Nigerian who was ready to serve his people diligently,” he said.
Meanwhile, Muktar Betara (APC, Borno), the Chairman of the House Committee on Appropriation, in a statement, said he was with Mr Maihanchi before traveling to Saudi Arabia.
“I was with him shortly before I departed to Saudi Arabia for the Lesser Hajj.
“The news of his death came as a huge shock to me, knowing full well the depth of his knowledge and vision for a prosperous Nigeria, which we collectively share,” he said.
Also, the Deputy Speaker, Idris Wase, in a statement by his aide, Umar Puma, expressed expressed grief over the passing of Mr Maihanchi.
Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Ahmed Wase [PHOTO CREDIT: Hon Ahmed Idris Wase on Facebook]The deputy speaker expressed his heartfelt condolences to the government and people of Taraba State over his death.
Mr Maihanchi, a member of the PDP, was elected to represent Jalingo, Yerro, and Zing Federal Constituency of Taraba State after he defeated the incumbent, Kasimu Maigatari. He died on Friday.
Before his election, he was special adviser to Taraba State Governor, Darius Ishaku, MD/CEO Maihanci Integrated Solutions Nigeria Limited and MD/CEO Maihanci Multi-Links Resources Limited.
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999


