Nigerian university bans staff, students from fixing artificial nails, eyelashes
The school also bans ponorgraphic materials.
The management of Godfrey Okoye University Enugu (GO-UNI), has banned staff and students of the institution from wearing shorts to work as well as to attend lectures.
The institution also stated that fixing fingernails, eyelashes, and other artificial materials on the body will no longer be allowed in the university.
GO-UNI is a private university owned by the Catholic Diocese of Enugu.
The Vice-Chancellor of the university, Christian Anieke, announced this while addressing staff and students and its group of institutions, according to a report by the Nation newspaper.
Mr Anieke, a Christian cleric, warned that the management would not tolerate staff or students who wear tights and other materials that expose sensitive parts of their bodies, stressing that such acts distract other members of the university.
The vice-chancellor said only black and brown hair would be allowed on campus and gave the staff and students one month to adjust to the new rules or face disciplinary action.
He maintained that going forward, students will be expected to wear their faculty uniforms from Tuesdays to Fridays, pointing out that the directive follows the approval for students to wear cultural attires on Fridays.
Mr Anieke also banned exchange of pornographic materials, saying such act is a taboo in the institution.
The vice-chancellor advised the staff of the institution to be proactive and cover their lectures as the management would not accept any excuse in case of disruption of the university’s academic programmes.
He warned final-year students against plagiarism, stressing that the university librarian had been directed to carry out plagiarism tests on all research works by the students and staff of the institution.
He asked the students to report any staff of the institution who frustrate them in the completion of their research works.
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.

TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

