2023 UTME: JAMB urges candidates to print slips, gives deadline
JAMB enjoined candidates to locate their centres before the day of their examination so as not to arrive late at the centres.
The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) has advised candidates billed to sit the 2023 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) to start printing their examination notification slips.
JAMB said the notification slips would contain their examination centres, time and date of examination and other essential details.
The examination is scheduled to hold from Tuesday, 25 April and 2 May.
JAMB spokesman, Fabian Benjamin, said the information on the slip is to help the candidates locate their computer based test (CBT) centres with ease.
He said candidates must print their slips on or before Monday 24 April, adding that the examination body will be strict with the timing on the candidates’ slips.
The examination body also enjoined candidates to locate their centres before the day of their examination so as not to arrive late at the examination centre.
“Candidates are also advised against going into the examination halls with prohibited items such as wristwatches, calculators, flash drives, phones, among others,” JAMB said.
Meanwhile, to print the slips, JAMB asked candidates to visit its website “and click on “2023 UTME SLIP PRINTING” on the menu bar to know the time and venue of their examination.”
This year, about 1.6 million candidates are to sit the annual examination which enables admission seekers to gain admission into tertiary institutions of their choice including universities, polytechnics, colleges of education, and monotechnics.
The board had ahead of the actual tests conducted a voluntary mock test for candidates on 30 March and 18 April.
Qosim Suleiman is a reporter at Premium Times in partnership with Report for the World, which matches local newsrooms with talented emerging journalists to report on under-covered issues around the globe
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.

TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

