Group asks APC to zone Reps Speakership to North-central
The group says zoning the position to the North-central is vital for national cohesion, unity and development.
A group, the Patriotic Peoples Forum (PPF), has asked the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to zone the speakership of the House of Representatives to the North-central geopolitical zone.
The group specifically asked the party to micro-zone the position to Kwara State.
Husseini Dikko, the acting director general of PPF, stated this during a press briefing in Abuja on Thursday.
The PPF supports one of the aspirants in the speakership race, Tunji Raheem, the lawmaker representing Ekiti/Oke-Ero/Irepodun/Isin federal Constituency of Kwara State.
Mr Dikko noted that the group considers North-central as the middle point that connects the South and the North, adding that zoning the position to the region is vital for “national cohesion, unity and development”.
He also stated that the APC should reward North-central for its role in the last election.
“We wish to use this medium to solicit for the leadership of the ruling party to support the zoning of speakership position to North- central going by the role the zone played in the just concluded general elections,” Mr Dikko said.
According to an analysis of the results of the presidential election by PREMIUM TIMES, In the North-central, 4.56 million people voted in the exercise.
APC’s Mr Tinubu got 1.7 million (41 per cent) of the total votes.
Over 10 members-elect have declared interest in the race and have commenced campaigns awaiting the decision of the leadership of the ruling party on zoning.
The APC governors, last week, recommended zoning the Speaker to North-west or North-central, while the Senate President should be zoned to the South-east and South-south.
Lawmakers from North-central in the race are Mr Raheem, Deputy Speaker Idris Wase (Plateau) and Yusuf Gagdi (Plateau).
From North-west are Sada Soli (Katsina), Abubakar Makki (Jigawa), Tajudeen Abbas (Kaduna) and Ahmed Jaji (Zamfara).
IMiriam Onuoha (Imo) and Ben Kalu (Abia) from the South-east and Muktar Betara from Borno State, North-east have also declared interest in the race.
However, the aspirants are awaiting the decision of the party on the zoning of the offices of the senate president, deputy senate president, speaker and deputy speaker of the House.

Mr Dikko said Mr Raheem will run on the PEASE agenda, which is the acronym for power, education, agriculture, security and employment.
He stated that the agenda of the lawmaker is consistent with the values prized by the group.


He added that electing the Kwara lawmaker will assure Nigerians that there is “a common and shared destiny, devoid of any divisive tendencies or any political consideration”.
He added that the lawmaker has the needed humility to preside over the House.
Mr Raheem was first elected in 2018, following the death of Funke Adedoyin who represented the constituency.
He was re-elected in 2019 and currently serves as the Chairman, House Committee on Emergency and Disaster Preparedness.
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

