Premium Times launches reader survey
We are interested in learning what our readers value about our work, why they visit PREMIUM TIMES to stay informed, and what they would like to see more or less on our website daily.
To do so, we have partnered with FT Strategies, the subscription growth consulting arm of the Financial Times, to create a reader survey to better understand our readers’ needs, values, preferences, and behaviours.
The goal is to obtain valuable data for our editorial and sales teams to improve PREMIUM TIMES journalism and fine-tune the company’s revenue model.
Completing the survey takes a few clicks and less than 10 minutes.
It is entirely anonymous, and no personal data is collected at any stage.
“We understand how important it is to interact with our readers and assess their preferences. We risk losing our readers’ interest and trust if we don’t clearly understand what they want,” said PREMIUM TIMES Digital Strategy and Technology Lead, Richard Akinwumi.
“This survey provides an invaluable opportunity for PREMIUM TIMES readers to have their voices heard and for us, as a team, to improve our content and services to meet your needs better. We encourage all readers to participate and share their valuable insights with us.”
“Without our readers, we would not be here,” said PREMIUM TIMES managing editor Idris Akinbajo.
“User feedback is critical for us to keep improving. While our core values of accuracy, integrity, and independence will always be at the heart of our work, understanding what readers want and expect from us will allow us to better tailor our news to their needs,” said Mr Akinbajo.
If you would like to complete the survey, please click here.
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999


