Eid-el-Fitr: Nigerian govt declares Friday, Monday public holidays
He congratulated Muslims for the successful completion of the holy month of Ramadan.
The federal government has declared Friday, 21 April, and Monday, 24 April, as public holiday to mark this year’s Eid-el-Fitr celebration.
This is contained in a statement by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Interior, Shuaib Belgore, on Wednesday in Abuja.
He congratulated Muslims for the successful completion of the holy month of Ramadan, urging them to imbibe the virtues of kindness, love, tolerance, self-denial and sacrifice as exemplified by the Holy Prophet Muhammad.
“The self-restrain, self-denial, sacrifice and deep spiritual consciousness that accompanied the fasting period should not end but be maintained and improved upon.
“This is for you to be a better person and true worshipper,” he said.
He gave assurance that President Muhammadu Buhari was fully committed to peaceful transition of government following successful elections.
He also assured Nigerians of government’s commitment to the provision of security for the lives and property of every citizen as well as foreigners in the country.
The minister commended security agencies on the successes recorded in the fight against criminals across the country, urging Nigerians to be part of the nation’s security architecture by being vigilant.
He pointed out that security was everybody’s responsibility.
He admonished Nigerians to also report suspicious activities and persons to the N-Alert application.
Mr Aregbesola wished Muslims a happy Eid-el-Fitr celebration and prayed that the peace, blessings and favour of Allah would be with all.
(NAN)
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.

By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

