Nigerian university bars students from driving on campus as union kicks
The university also banned the use of tinted vehicles by staffers and students.
The management of Ladoke Akintola University of Technology (LAUTECH), Ogbomoso, has banned its students from driving or bringing cars to the campus.
In a memo titled: “Management Decision on Movement of Vehicles in the University,” and signed by the university’s registrar, Kayode Ogunleye, on Wednesday noted that the ban is to curtail motor traffic accidents on campus.
The memo, which was referenced: REG/ADM.38, was dated Tuesday, 18 April.
But the students’ union on the campus has kicked against the management’s decision, insisting it is against all known laws.
The university also banned the use of tinted vehicles by staffers and students, and learner symbols and permits must be displayed on the vehicles of “beginner drivers.”
Confirming the development to PREMIUM TIMES Wednesday, the University’s Dean of Students Affairs, Azeem Ige, said the decision was taken as part of measures to address “the series of motor accidents within the campus.”
“We can’t wait until we start losing students to such accidents. We had to take proactive steps and that was the reason the management decided on the ban,” he said.
Mr Ige also noted the management also made other rules and regulations that concern the university’s staff and other users on the campus.
As stated in the memo, the university management also noted that vehicles with no registration numbers are no longer allowed on the campus.
It added that “roadside parking of vehicles should stop forthwith and all unauthorised vehicles parked at various positions in the university should be taken out with immediate effect, failing which university security will take appropriate action on such vehicles.”
The management has also ordered that the leadership of its security unit and the office of the Dean of Students’ Affairs should ensure compliance “and take action on all the decisions.”
Responding to the development, the President of the Students’ Union, Anuoluwapo Adeboye, told PREMIUM TIMES Wednesday that “the union is in total disagreement with the management on the development, adding that they “have opened dialogue with the management on the matter.”
“We disagree with the university management on this decision but we are working out the possibility of reaching a compromise on the matter,” he said.
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.

For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

