Nigerian Army deploys troops in Guinea Bissau for peacekeeping
The Army cautioned the troops to avoid any ugly incident that could tarnish its image and that of Nigeria during their stay in Guinea-Bissau.
The Nigeria Army, on Wednesday, completed pre-deployment training for 172 troops for a peacekeeping mission in Guinea Bissau.
The troops began their pre-deployment training on 21 March at the Martin Luther Agwai International Leadership and Peace Keeping Centre (MLAILPKC), Jaji, Kaduna state.
Addressing the troops, the Chief of Operations, Army, Taoreed Lagbaja, a major general, said the troops would be Nigeria’s Company 2 Stabilisation Mission in the ECOWAS-support mission in Guinea Bissau.
Mr Lagbaja, represented by Bayode Adetoro, a major general and Director, Peace Support Operations, said the graduation further confirmed the commitment of Nigeria to deploy quality peacekeepers as part of its contributions to the quest for global peace and security.
He explained that the pre-deployment training was aimed at refreshing and polishing troops’ knowledge and expertise in peace-support operations.
“The training was to equip you with the requisite skills required to protect yourselves, ECOWAS Mission in Guinea Bissau equipment and the citizens of Guinea Bissau, your host nation while carrying out the mission’s mandate,” he said.
He cautioned the troops to avoid any ugly incident that could tarnish the image of the Army and Nigeria during their stay in Guinea-Bissau.
“Let me categorically state that you are to discharge your duties in consonance with the mission’s mandate at all times.
“I must also remind you that the rules of engagement in the mission give you the latitude to exhibit utmost professionalism in the discharge of your responsibilities.
“Additionally, you must respect the culture and religious sensitivity of the people of the host nation and must not involve yourselves in the trafficking of illicit substance of any kind,” Mr Lagbaja warned.
He stressed that the ECOWAS mission has zero tolerance for sexual exploitation and abuse.
Earlier, the Commandant of the MLAILPKC, Emmanuel Undiandeye, a major general, said the training was intense, comprehensive, and was conducted using the Standard United Nations Core Pre-Deployment Training Materials.
He added that the troops were taken through crosscutting issues like sexual exploitation and abuse, conflict-related sexual violence, conduct and discipline as well as protection of civilians amongst others.
Mr Undiandeye noted that Nigeria and its Armed Forces had remained committed to global peace and security.
“Nigeria has since the 1960s contributed troops to different peace support operations ranging from the Congo, Yugoslavia and Lebanon, amongst others.

“As the powerhouse of the West Africa sub-region, Nigeria has committed both human and material resources to the attainment of peace in the sub-region,” he noted.
The commandant charged the troops with discharging their duties in line with the mission’s mandate while urging them to adhere strictly to the mission’s rules of engagement.


He also urged them to carry out their duties bearing in mind the multinational, as well as cultural and religious diversities of the operating environment which underscore the need for courtesy and respect for their hosts as well as others.
He thanked the Chief of Army Staff, Farouk Yahaya, for his guidance and support to the Centre which enabled the successful completion of the pre-deployment training.
(NAN)
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

