Buhari’s top aide Gambari seeks support for incoming govt, says elections are over
Ibrahim Gambari says President Buhari is leaving many legacies for the incoming administration to build on
The Chief of Staff to President Muhammadu Buhari, Ibrahim Gambari, has urged Nigerians to start building support and provide an enabling environment for the incoming government to thrive.
Mr Gambari, a professor, made the call in Birnin Kebbi while briefing journalists following a visit to Governor Atiku Bagudu and the Emir of Gwandu, Muhammadu Bashar.
“I am here on a private visit to see the governor and His Royal Highness, the Emir of Gwandu because we are coming to the end of this administration.
“I am here to appreciate them for their support, prayers and also making a point that elections are now over.
“We should now be building support and enabling environment for the incoming administration so that they could build – up on the positive record of President Buhari in all the major priorities his administration focused on.
“Above all, for being the one that conducted and supervised the free and fair 2023 general elections that produced these results”.
Speaking on the legacy Mr Buhari will be leaving behind, Mr Gambari noted that apart from free and fair elections he conducted, the people of the country would remember him for his fighting against corruption, agriculture revolution which has started making Nigerians eat what they are producing.
“Among other legacies, we have diversified the economy. We are now producing what we are eating.
“Many states across Nigeria now have various crops they have economic advantage upon and they are producing it abundantly.
“Except Kebbi state which stands top among the states because the state has made a lot of impact on the agricultural revolution in Nigeria.
“Apart from that, President Muhammadu has constructed a lot of road kilometres, fighting corruption. These are the legacies he will be leaving behind.
“Above all, he supervised a free and fair election and he congratulated the winners including states where the ruling party did not win”, he said.
(NAN)
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.

For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

