Kidnapped Kaduna students escaped from abductors – Official
The students escaped days after they were kidnapped
The kidnapped female students of Government Secondary School (GSS) Awon in Kachia Local government Area of Kaduna State have escaped from their abductors.
Samuel Aruwan, the Kaduna State commissioner of the Ministry of Internal Security and Home Affairs, announced the development in a statement to reporters on Tuesday.
“The eight female students of Government Secondary School, Awon – who were kidnapped by terrorists on Monday 3rd April 2023 in the Awon general area of Kachia LGA have escaped from the terrorists’ den.
“The students escaped from a forest around the Kaduna – Niger interstate boundaries and walked for days before arriving at a location (kept undisclosed for security reasons) where they were harboured.
“Human intelligence sources subsequently alerted the Kaduna State Government for immediate evacuation”, the Kaduna government statement said.
The statement said Governor Nasir El-Rufai on receipt of the intelligence directed the Ministry of Internal Security and Home Affairs to liaise with the 1 Division Nigerian Army for the urgent evacuation of the students to Kaduna Metropolis.
It was credibly gathered that the terrorists were combing forests in the area to recapture the students, he added.
“The students have been safely evacuated to a military facility where they are presently receiving medical attention.
“Meanwhile, Governor El-Rufai has expressed his delight over the development and has praised the students for demonstrating sheer courage and resilience in making their escape from captivity.
“The Governor admonished them to view the horrific experience as a turning point and pursue their education with renewed vigour for a purposeful future.
“The Governor also commended the General Officer Commanding, 1 Division, Major General OT Akinjobi for the prompt evacuation and the ongoing medicals being conducted on the students,” the statement said.
Kaduna is in the larger part of North-west Nigeria where terrorists target public schools for kidnapping for ransom. Other states where the incidents often occur include Zamfara, Kebbi and North-central Niger state.
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.

By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

