Police arrest APGA factional chairperson in court premises
The APGA chief and others are being prosecuted by the police at the Abuja court.
There was mild drama, on Monday, at the premises of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) High Court in Bwari, Abuja, as the factional Chairman of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), Edozie Njoku, was arrested by the Nigerian police.
The arrest followed a complaint by the prosecution lawyer, Ezekiel Rinamsomte, that Mr Njoku, prior to the commencement of the criminal case filed against him, had verbally threatened him as counsel in the matter.
He told Justice Mohammed Madugu shortly after the case was about to be adjourned.
He said the complaint had already been lodged at the Bwari Divisional Police Station.
“My lord, this morning when I came to the court, he (Njoku) saw me, waved his hand at me and said prosecutor how are you and we shook hands.
“I did not even recognise him because there is nothing personal between me and him.
“The next thing this man started telling me was that he was going to send calamity upon calamities upon my family; that members of my family will be dying and that he would deal with me.
“I asked him what have I done, he said he was a very dangerous man. He said he was the reason why Director, Litigation of Supreme Court, Mr Dikko, was removed and dismissed.
“That he was going to shake the Nigerian Police Force; that he was the reason why the daughter of (Onyechi) Ikpeazu, SAN, died; that he was going to deal with everybody in this case.
“And I said does it mean that this man is above the law or what is the problem,” the lawyer said.
Mr Rinamsomte said he decided to inform the judge so that the court could take judicial notice of what transpired between him and Mr Njoku earlier in the morning
Justice Madugu, who hinted that he had already closed proceeding on the suit, however, asked Mr Njoku, who was standing in the dock with his co-defendant, what happened.
Responding, the APGA factional chairman admitted exchanging pleasantries with Mr Rinamsomte earlier in the day.
But he denied the allegations that he threatened the prosecutor.
“My lord, I only said that anybody in this case, who lied against me to go to jail or send anyone to prison by telling lie, calamity will befall that person,” he said.
Mr Njoku said he neither mentioned anything about the late Ikpeazu’s daughter nor made any such comments attributed to him by the prosecutor.

The judge, then, jokingly said Mr Rinamsomte should have avoided Mr Njoku who he knew was standing trial.
“You should have greeted him from afar,” he said.
NAN reports that at the commencement of the trial, the prosecutor sought to withdraw the amended charge filed against Mr Njoku and his co-defendant, Chukwuemeka Nwoga.


And after it was not opposed by the defence counsel, Panam Ntui, Justice Madugu, granted the prayer, and the 1st prosecution witness, Godwin Odu, the Deputy National Secretary of APGA, gave his testimony.
The judge, consequently, adjourned the matter until 27 April for trial continuation after Ntui cross-examined the PW1.
Mr Njoku, in an interview with journalists shortly after the proceeding, said Mr Rinamsomte’s allegations against him were baseless.
“The prosecutor made a terrible claim against me and he has already brought policemen to arrest me. That is their Option B.
“That I said I killed Onyechi Ikpeazu’s daughter; that I said he will die, that I said I am a very dangerous man; that he has gone and brought the police to arrest me and face charges,” he said.
He said “It looks as if their initial case against him is dead” and they were looking for another way to delay justice.
NAN reports that Mr Njoku was later released at the police station after Mr Rinamsomte withdrew the case.
Messrs Njoku and Nwoga were, on 28 November 2022, arraigned on a 14-count criminal charge bordering on forgery, an offence which attracts imprisonment of a maximum of 14 years jail term if found guilty.
The Inspector General (I-G) of Police had accused them of forging a Supreme Court judgment and the letterhead paper of retired Justice Mary Peter-Odili.
In the 1charge marked: CR/12/2022 and dated October 21, the defendants were accused of conspiring with others to forge a judgment of the Supreme Court.
The defendants, however, pleaded not guilty to the entire 14-count charge.
They were remanded at Suleja Correctional Centre and granted bail on 30 November 2022.


(NAN)
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

