Adamawa Supplementary Poll: Atiku deplores REC’s action, says it’s treasonable
Atiku says the initial decision the REC in Adamawa, Hudu Yunusa-Ari, to declare Binani as the winner of the governorship election is a case study in the shambolic nature of the 2023 polls in general.
The Presidential Candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the 2023 polls, Atiku Abubakar, has described the purported declaration of Adamawa State governorship election results as a game plan to upturn the democratic wishes of the people of the state.
Atiku stated this in a statement by his Media Adviser, Paul Ibe, on Sunday in Abuja.
He said that the initial decision of INEC Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in Adamawa, Hudu Yunusa-Ari, to declare the APC candidate, Aisha Dalhatu aka Binani, as the winner of the election was a case study in the shambolic nature of the 2023 polls in general.
“Here in Adamawa, we are witnesses to a novel practice in election management where a Resident Electoral Commissioner announced the loser of an election as a winner.
“It is not in doubt that INEC has approached the Adamawa State election with a pre-set agenda of declaring the APC at all cost.
“It is, therefore, on this note that we wish to call the attention of the world to the scheme being perpetrated by INEC to compromise the electoral wishes of the people of Adamawa State,” he said.
Atiku said that such behaviour by INEC had negative consequences on the society.
He said people had seen how INEC conducted the 25 February and 18 March elections against the run of play and later challenging cheated candidates to go to court.
Atiku said that the people of Adamawa would not allow themselves to be cheated three times in a row.
He said the fact that the APC candidate had a prepared acceptance speech was a pointer to the guarantee of a false victory which the INEC must have promised her.
He alleged that it was the same REC who pressured the Returning Officer to manipulate the results of the contentious Fufore Local Government Area in the 18 March governorship election.
Atiku said that the people of Adamawa would not allow the injustice to pass without being challenged.
“We demand the immediate resumption of the collation of results and its finalisation today.
“It is also our demand that the Adamawa REC and any other parties complicit in this treasonable act should be arrested immediately and prosecuted to the full extent of the law.
“This will serve as a deterrent to anti-democratic forces who may want to torpedo our democracy and provoke violence in our country,“ Atiku said.

Mr Yunusa-Ari had declared Binani as winner midway into the collation.
Reports indicate that results from 10 out of the 20 local government areas had been declared while the exercise was adjourned till 11 a.m on Sunday.


However, Mr Yunusa-Ari announced the final result an hour before the scheduled time.
(NAN)
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

