Buhari meets with Bawa, Buratai, two governors, others in Saudi Arabia
President Buhari received Governors Mai Mala Buni of Yobe, Babagana Zulum of Borno and the incoming Governor of Katsina State, Dikko Radda.
President Muhammadu Buhari on the fifth day of the official visit to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, shared a warm moment with some of the country’s governors and other officials, where he was updated on ongoing situations including the conclusion of outstanding elections back in the country.
At the Makkah Guest Palace where he is accommodated by the government of the host country, President Buhari received Governors Mai Mala Buni of Yobe, Babagana Zulum of Borno and the incoming Governor of Katsina State, Dikko Radda.
The others were the Chairman of the EFCC, Abdulrasheed Bawa, the Chairman of the Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, Abike Dabiri-Erewa and a past Chief of Army Staff, Tukur Buratai.
After listening to the briefs, President Buhari said whatever Nigeria has achieved today is due to the power of its democracy and the power of our institutions, which must continue to be strengthened.
Speaking individually after the meetings, the governors of Borno and Yobe states said they remained appreciative of the efforts of the president in curbing the threats of Boko Haram terrorists in their states and were happy that peace had been restored.
They promised to continue to work for the betterment of their people and remain loyal to the president.
The Chairman of the EFCC briefed the President on efforts to conclude ongoing court cases and the plan to prosecute more offenders. He also briefed on the arrests of several suspects in connection with election fraud and the plan to take them to court.
The Governor-elect of Katsina State, Mr Radda, gave assurances of his commitment to an open and transparent government as promised during the campaign.
After the meeting, the guests joined the president to observe the afternoon prayers.
Garba Shehu
Senior Special Assistant to the President
(Media & Publicity)
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999


