NDLEA intercepts drug consignments in winter jackets, body lotion at Lagos airport
Preliminary investigation revealed that the suspect came into Nigeria from Oman on 7 April and was returning exactly a week after.
Consignments of Tramadol, Rohypnol, Ecstasy (Designer drug) and Cannabis concealed in winter jackets and bottles of body cream have been intercepted by operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency, NDLEA, at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, MMIA, Ikeja Lagos.
The psychoactive substances were recovered at the new terminal of the airport on Friday following the arrest of a passenger, Joshia Sunday, who was travelling on a Qatar Airline flight via Doha to Oman, Middle East.
A thorough search of the suspect’s two black bags, according to a statement released on Sunday by the agency’s director of media and advocacy, Femi Babafemi, led to the discovery of 4.80 kilograms of cannabis concealed in three winter jackets and various quantities of Tramadol, Rohypnol, Ecstasy (Designer drug) hidden in bottles of body lotion.
Preliminary investigation revealed that the suspect came into Nigeria from Oman on 7 April and was returning exactly a week after.
In the same vein, a Lekki Lagos-based businessman, Cyril Chidiebere, was on Friday arrested along with two of his freight agents: Mejabi Peter Sunday and Oyeyinka Babatunde over their involvement in the importation of twelve (12) parcels of Loud, a strain of cannabis, weighing 6.50kg, which was part of a consolidated cargo brought in from the United States of America.
The arrest and seizure followed a three-day intelligence-led operation.
Following the arrival of the cargo at the NAHCO import shed of the MMIA, its movement out of the airport was closely monitored in a sting operation until the actual importer, Mr Chidiebere, was arrested in his house at Abraham Adesanya estate, Ajah, Lekki area of Lagos.
Both Messrs Mejabi and Chidiebere have made useful statements to confirm that the latter has been involved in dealing with illicit drugs in the past.
Meanwhile, a pregnant woman, Rabetu Abdulrasak, 24, and a cripple, Shehu Adams, have been arrested by NDLEA operatives in Agbede, Etsako West LGA, Edo State while over 14 kilograms of assorted illicit drugs including cannabis, methamphetamine, tramadol and swinol were recovered from them on Saturday 15 April.
Also, a 22-year-old HND 1 female student of Federal Polytechnic, Ilaro, Ogun State, Isoyo Iveren Susan was on Saturday arrested opposite the 2nd Gate of the institution for dealing in illicit drugs.
Recovered from her include 1,100ML of codeine-based cough syrup and 283 grams of cannabis. This is just as operatives in Lagos arrested two suspects: Nonso Peter, 21, and Bright Chibike, 23, with 43.4kg cannabis at Ile-Epo, Abule Egba area of the state on Friday.
In Katsina State, no less than 1,730 bottles of codeine-based syrup were seized from a suspect, Bishir Sa’adu in Katsina metropolis on Sunday 9th April just as Muhamadu Yusuf was equally arrested the same day with 8,000 capsules of tramadol inside a commercial bus along Kano – Katsina road.
In the same vein, NDLEA operatives in Kaduna on Thursday 13 April raided a clandestine laboratory where mist potassium citrate was being produced in a residential apartment at 16 Sabon Gari, Zaria. The owner of the lab, Christopher Agodi, was arrested and 102 cartons containing 2,448 bottles of the substance were recovered.
Another suspect, Salisu Abdullahi, 25, was arrested along Abuja-Kaduna road with 11.7kg cannabis concealed in two jerrycans, which he was moving from Port Harcourt to Kano just as operatives of the agency also on Saturday nabbed one Atiku Abubakar, 22, on the same road with 50 blocks of cannabis weighing 28kg while travelling from Lagos to Shinkafi in Zamfara State in a commercial bus.
Similarly, anti-narcotic officers acting on a tip-off, arrested two suspects: Aminu Saudi, 45 and Abdullahi Sani, 35, at Ogbese, Ondo state, with 11 jumbo bags containing 211kg of cannabis concealed in rice chaff. This was closely followed by the destruction of six hectares of cannabis farm in the Uso forest in the state on Thursday 13th April.

The statement noted that the agency’s chairman/chief executive officer, Buba Marwa a retired brigadier general, has commended the officers and men of the MMIA, Edo, Ogun, Lagos, Katsina, Kaduna and Ondo Commands for the arrests and seizures of the past week.
Mr Marwa urged them and their compatriots across the country to remain focused and continue the current drug supply reduction and drug demand reduction efforts simultaneously.


Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

