House Majority Leader Ado Doguwa, who is facing murder charges, re-elected
Mr Doguwa, is now a member-elect for the fifth term.
The Majority Leader of the House of Representatives, Alhasan Doguwa, has been re-elected to represent the Doguwa/Tudunwada Federal Constituency of Kano.
His victory comes weeks after he was charged with murder by the police.
The police in Kano charged Mr Doguwa with murder for allegedly killing three people during the 25 February election.
The lawmaker was involved in a violent confrontation between members of the New Nigeria People Party (NNPP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC) that led to the killing of three people and the burning of a campaign office of the opposition party in the Tudun Wada Local Government Area of Kano.
The police said the lawmaker was arrested and charged alongside other accomplices.
“The lawmaker was charged with criminal conspiracy, culpable homicide, causing grievous hurt, and mischief by fire, inciting disturbance,” the police spokesperson Abdullahi Kiyawa, said.
His election was later declared inconclusive.
The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Saturday declared him as the winner of the supplementary election for the Tudun-Wada,/Doguwa constituency.
The INEC returning officer, Sani Ibrahim, a professor, said Mr Doguwa scored the highest number of votes cast, 41,573, to defeat his closest rival of the New Nigeria People Party (NNPP) Yushau Salisu, who got 34,831 votes.
The supplementary election was conducted in eight wards in Tudunwada local government.
Saturday’s supplementary election was reportedly marred by voter suppression and intimidation.
Mr Doguwa will be representing the constituency for the fifth term and is believed to be eyeing the position of Speaker of the Parliament.
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.

By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

