Supplementary election records high voter turnout in Sokoto
The supplementary elections are taking place in some polling units across the 23 local government areas for 10 National Assembly seats not concluded on 25 February.
Saturday’s supplementary election being conducted by INEC, recorded high voter turnout as the election began early in the affected areas in Sokoto State.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that voters, especially women, came out in large numbers at the polling units while combined teams of security agencies enforced movement restrictions in the Sokoto metropolis.
The supplementary elections are taking place in some polling units across the 23 local government areas for 10 National Assembly seats not concluded on 25 February.
At Magajin Gari B ward, Garkar Alkali Yahaya 003 polling unit, election had commenced as early as 8 a.m and voters formed queues in an orderly manner with cooperation from the party agents.
The Presiding Officer, Abdulbaqi Abubakar, told NAN that Biomodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) had been working smoothly and voters complied with instructions.
Mr Abubakar said the four INEC ad hoc staff were present while political parties presented three agents each, adding that the security personnel attached to the polling unit had not shown up.
He said that accreditation was going smoothly, BVAS was working well while accreditation and voting were in progress.
The situation is similar at Rumfar Kyahel polling unit 008, Kofar Atiku, ‘Yargoba and Kanwuri all in Sokoto North Local Government Area.
Some eligible voters, Aminu Rufa’i, Kabir Nasir and Maryam Bello, commended the process and expressed the hope of rounding off early, without experiencing what occurred during the previous election.
(NAN)
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999


