Ex-Gov Makarfi heads PDP committee for Kogi gov primary election
The PDP governorship primary election will hold on Sunday 16 April in Lokoja, the Kogi State capital.
The National Working Committee of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has constituted a special committee to conduct the primary election for aspirants ahead of the November governorship election in Kogi State.
The seven-member committee will be chaired by a former governor of Kaduna State, Ahmed Makarfi, with Lauretta Ogwuche as the Secretary.
Other members of the committee are, Erelu Mark, Ikechukwu Nwosu, Deolu Harrison, Usman Ibrahim and Anthony Onwuka.
The National Organising Secretary of the PDP, Umar Bature, made the disclosure in a statement on Saturday.
He said the primary election is scheduled for Sunday at the state capital, Lokoja.
Mr Bature urged members of the committee to work according to the guidelines of the party’s constitution.
“In carrying out this assignment, you are expected to be guided strictly by the PDP Constitution (2017 as amended), the Electoral Guidelines for Party Primary Elections and the 2022 Electoral Act,” he said.
“It is expected that your exemplary conduct and strict adherence to rules and regulations during your assignment will justify the confidence reposed in you by the leadership of the Party.”
The party recently screened nine aspirants for the exercise. They are a former senator, Dino Melaye, a former deputy governor of the state, Yomi Awoniyi, another former senator, Attai Aidoko, Kebiru Usman and Abdullahi Haruna.
Others are Zakaria Alfa, Musa Wada, Bolu Femi, and Idoko Idah.
The ruling party in the state, APC, on Friday nominated Ahmed Usman-Ododo, as its candidate for the 11 November governorship election.
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.

TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

