Supplementary Elections: EFCC deploys 100 operatives to curb vote-buying in three states
Supplementary state and federal constituency elections hold in Kano, Katsina and Jigawa states on Saturday.
The Economic and Financial Crime Commission (EFCC) says it has deployed 100 armed operatives to combat vote buying in Kano, Katsina and Jigawa during Saturday’s supplementary elections in the states.
The Kano Zonal Commander of EFCC, Farouk Dogondaji, disclosed this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Kano on Friday.
“We have deployed 20 personnel to monitor the conduct of the state Assembly elections in Kafur, Kankara in Katsina State,“ he said.
He explained that adequate personnel were also deployed to monitor the exercise in Tudun Wada/Doguwa, and Takai federal constituency, as well as some state assembly elections in Kano State.
Mr Dogondaji said other personnel were also deployed for House of Assembly elections in Katsina and Jigawa, to prevent vote buying.
“We have also deployed officers to Malam Aminu Kano International Airport in Kano and the metropolis to monitor the exercise.
”We will be visible in all the polling units in Kano, Katsina and Jigawa to carefully monitor the entire exercise during and after the elections.
“We will be physically present at collection centres to prevent tampering with results from the Local Government Areas to the state.
“We are carefully monitoring the entire exercise along with state security agencies, towards providing a peaceful atmosphere for eligible voters to elect their leaders,“ he said.
He said the deployment was part of the commission’s commitment towards ensuring credible and transparent elections in the zone.
The commander said the EFCC had also adopted measures that would make it difficult for any person or group to tamper with the results of the elections.
Mr Dogondaji called on the personnel to be thorough and professional in carrying out the national assignment.
“Our presence is to add value to the electoral process by preventing vote buying and change of results at collation centres,” he said.
He advised parents not to allow their children to be used as political thugs, as anyone found wanting would be arrested and prosecuted.
(NAN)

Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

