Gov Diri of Bayelsa picks PDP ticket to seek second tenure
Mr Diri, who was the sole aspirant for the primary, polled 305 “yes” votes from the delegates to emerge as the PDP candidate for the 11 November governorship election.
Governor Douye Diri has emerged winner of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship primary to contest the Bayelsa governorship seat on 11 November.
With this development, the coast is clear for Mr Diri to seek a second tenure.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Mr Diri, who was the sole aspirant for the primary, polled 305 “yes” votes from the delegates to emerged as the party candidate.
The primary election conducted on Wednesday had the party delegates from the eight local government areas of the state casting their votes to affirm the candidature of the governor.
Chairman of the election committee and Osun governor, Ademola Adeleke, urged the people of the state to rally around the party during the governorship election.
He expressed happiness that the committee was able to conduct a free and fair primary, urging members to unite to ensure victory.
Mr Diri, a former senator, in his remark, promised to lead the party to victory, pointing out that Bayelsa was a PDP state judging from the presidential and National Assembly elections.
He said: “In a democracy, people must be allowed to vote and the votes must count; people of Bayelsa must ensure that persons with violent tendencies are not entrusted with leadership.
“The voting pattern during the general election showed that Bayelsa is totally PDP; our government has been able to bring back members who have left. We have formed a united front.
“In the past three years, our government has embarked on several infrastructural projects and made the welfare of civil servants a priority. We will consolidate on what we have on ground when we are re-elected.
“We will continue to take necessary steps to bring shared prosperity to Bayelsa and its people,” he said.
(NAN)
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.

By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

