FEC approves N49bn revised sum for Enugu-Anambra link road
Works and Housing Minister, Babatunde Fashola, says the augmentation was in the sum of N17 billion which revised the contract sum to N49 billion with an additional completion time of 42 months.’’
The Federal Executive Council (FEC) has approved the sum of N49 billion being the revised sum for the old Enugu-Onitsha road project.
The Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, briefed State House correspondents after the FEC meeting presided over by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on Wednesday at the Presidential Villa, Abuja.
Mr Fashola said his ministry sought and obtained two approvals from the council.
“We presented two memoranda to the council; both were approved; the first is with regards to contract cost revision by way of augmentation for the old Enugu-Onitsha road from Opi junction to Udi-Oji to Anambra border in Enugu State.
“The augmentation was in the sum of N17 billion which revised the contract sum to N49 billion with an additional completion time of 42 months.’’
The minister said the second contract was a fresh contract for the maintenance of the pavement of the third mainland bridge.
He said that maintenance would address public concerns about the presence of potholes on the bridge.
“And this was approved in the sum of N6.3 billion for 24 months.
“This is in consonance with the Executive Order 11 signed by the president for the continued maintenance of public infrastructure.
“This contract responds to the questions on potholes that have become manifest on the entire pavement of the deck of the bridge spanning 11 eleven kilometres and the interchanges—Adeniji Adele, Adekunle and Gbagada ramps that all link the bridge; this is for the resurfacing of all that.
“Those who are familiar with the bridge will recall that all of these failures were not this manifest on the bridge as at the time we did some work; and the work that we did concentrated largely on the sub-structure of the bridge—the piles, the underwater piles; the pile caps and also the replacement of the expansion joints and the bearings.’’
According to him, the maintenance works are critical to the structural integrity of the bridge.
He said the maintenance work would restore the driving surface and the aesthetics.
“Some of the rails that have been stolen; some of the planes that have misaligned at the ramps that lead you on and off the bridge.
“So, this is the work that is being done now; so all the experience, avoiding potholes on the bridge; this project will tackle that,’’ he said.

(NAN)
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

