NDLEA arrests 218 suspects with 5,610kg illicit drugs in Kaduna
The suspects comprised 206 males and 12 females.
The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) says it has arrested 218 suspects with 5,610 kilogrammes of illicit drugs in Kaduna.
The NDLEA Commandant in Kaduna State, Ibrahim Braji, stated this in an exclusive interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Sunday in Kaduna.
Mr Braji said the suspects comprised 206 males and 12 females, adding that the figure represents drug dealers and users.
The Commander said the 5,610kg seized drugs included Cannabis Sativa, Heroin, Cocaine, Methamphetamine, Tramadol and other psychotropic substances.
He said the arrests and seizures made between January and March this year were part of the command’s efforts towards curbing the scourge through drug demand reduction activities.
According to him, the command has prosecuted and secured the conviction of 25 offenders.
“It is unfortunate that despite our various sensitisation and awareness programmes towards curbing trafficking and usage of illicit drugs, the situation persists.
“We counselled about 96 drug users and rehabilitated a number of persons within the period under review.
“Notwithstanding, the command will continue to fight against drug trafficking and illegal drug consumption in the state to a standstill for positive results,” he said.
While advising parents to be vigilant and monitor their wards to protect them from being involved in drug abuse, Mr Braji urged citizens to contribute towards building a drug-free society for sustainable social and economic development.
(NAN)
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.

TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

