Navy arrests 27 vessels, deactivates 294 illegal refinery sites within 12 months – Official
Crude oil theft has become one of the prevalent crimes around Nigeria’s coastal areas.
The Eastern Naval Command of the Nigerian Navy on Tuesday announced that it had arrested 27 vessels involved in illegal bunkering and crude oil theft, while 294 illegal refinery sites were deactivated.
Ibrahim Dewu, a rear admiral and the immediate past Flag Officer Commanding (FOC) Eastern Naval Command, disclosed this in Calabar while handing over the leadership of the command to his successor, Olusola Oluwagbire, also a rear admiral.
Mr Dewu explained that the arrests were made between the period he assumed office as Flag Officer of the Command, from 4 February, 2022 to the period he exited from the command on 11 April.
According to him, the command also sustained effective patrol of its maritime area of responsibility as well as undertook several “clearance and swamp buggy operations” in the backwaters.
He noted that the operations resulted in a considerable reduction of piracy in Nigeria’s maritime domain.
He said that the command also took part in some independent, joint and combined exercises like; Operation Calm Waters, Operation Tripartite Border Patrol, Operation Tsare Teku, Operation Gba Pada, Operation Dakatar Da Barawo and Operation Obangame 2023.
“Within the period under review, from 4 February 4 2022 till date, our sustained operations led to the arrests of 27 vessels engaged in illegal bunkering, crude oil theft and other maritime illegalities.
“Other achievements include deactivation of about 294 illegal refining sites and still counting, destruction and evacuation of illegally refined diesel, kerosine and crude oil and destruction of several pirates as well as kidnappers’ camps.
“It is noteworthy to state that the command also recorded significant achievements in infrastructure development across all the bases and establishments under the command,” he said.
He mentioned the projects executed to include; the remodeling of Eastern Naval Command swimming pool with a lounge, mini mart and restaurant.
Others are: remodeling of the multipurpose sports hall and conference room as well as construction of corner shops, and a gym at 1006 officers’ quarters.
“Furthermore, across the bases and units, the commanders and commanding officers have embarked on series of projects towards improving the welfare and security of the personnel.
“We remain grateful to God Almighty, who made it all possible and the Chief of the Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Awwal Gambo, for graciously providing the resources.
“I, therefore, implore you all to fully support the incoming FOC, to enable him to surpass these achievements during his time here,” he added.
Responding, the new FOC commended his predecessor for all the achievements he recorded, and solicited the support and cooperation of officers and men in the command to enable him succeed.

“I look forward to contributing my quota towards achieving the Chief of the Naval Staff’ mission of optimising the deployment of the Nigerian Navy in the performance of our constitutional roles and undertaking of assigned tasks,” he said.
(NAN)


Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

