Peter Obi, Spyro’s ‘Who is your guy?’, ‘How to check my polling unit’ were most searched in Q1 2023- Google
Google on Tuesday revealed the top searches that captured the interest of Nigerians in the first three months of 2023.
Google on Tuesday revealed the top searches that captured the interest of Nigerians in the first three months of the year.
The list reveals a captivating blend of politics, pop culture, and curiosity swept across the Nigerian digital landscape in the first quarter of 2023, as shown by Google’s top search trends.
Search trends information is gleaned from data collated by Google based on what Nigerians have been searching for and asking Google.
Google processes more than 40 000 search queries every second. It translates to more than a billion daily searches and 1.2 trillion searches per year worldwide.
Google Trends, on the other hand, is a publicly available tool that displays relative search volume across geographies, periods and queries that people want to know about. The main two categories of searches are: ‘Trending’ and ‘Most Searched’. Trending Searc²hes: The “trending” queries are the searches with the highest traffic over a specific period.
Most Searched/ Top Searches: What topped Google’s charts? The “most searched” queries are simply the most popular terms for a specific period, ranked in order by volume of searches.
Political intrigue reached a fever pitch as Nigeria’s general elections unfolded, captivating the nation’s attention. Held on 25th February, these pivotal elections determined the president, vice president, Senate and House of Representatives members, and state governors in 31 of 36 Nigerian states.
Among the most searched individuals, Peter Obi, the Labour Party presidential candidate, captured the top spot, outpacing even Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the president-elect of Nigeria. Atiku Abubakar, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) presidential candidate, claimed the fifth position.
The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) emerged as the most searched entity between January and March, with Peter Obi and the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) closely following. The CBN’s currency redesign before the elections undoubtedly contributed to its prominence.
Homegrown talent took centre stage in music as Nigerians sought the latest tunes. Spyro’s infectious hit, ‘Who is your guy?’ claimed the top spot, with Ruger’s ‘Asiwaju’ and ‘Carry Me Go’ by Boy Spyce and Khaid securing second and third places, respectively.
The nation’s collective curiosity was also evident in the top trending questions, which ranged from ‘When is Easter 2023?’ and ‘When is WAEC 2023 starting?’ to ‘How to check my polling unit?’ and ‘Who is the President of Ni¹geria?’. Unsurprisingly, the popularity of Spyro’s song sparked the question, ‘Who is your guy?’, further showcasing Nigeria’s deep-rooted love for the tune.
Here are the complete lists of top trending searches reflecting the diverse interests of Nigerians during the first quarter of the year:
Here are the complete lists of top trending searches reflecting the diverse interests of Nigerians during the first quarter of the year:
INEC
Peter Obi

CBN
Tinubu


Al Nassr
Mudryk
IREV portal
Christian Atsu
Atiku
Aka
Top trending song searches from January to March 2023
Who is your guy? – Spyro
Ruger – Asiwaju
Carry me go – Boy Spyce and Khaid
Soso – Omah Lay


Stability – Ayra Starr
Rich till i die – Kizz Daniel
Party no dey stop – Adekunle Gold and Zinoleesky
Tobechukwu – Nathaniel Bassey and Mercy Chinwo
Gwagwalada – BNXN, Kizz Daniel, Seyi Vibez
Won da mo – Mavins, Rema and Boy Spyce
Top Trending ‘Who is’ Questions from January to March 2023
Who is your guy?
Who is the President of Nigeria?
Who is the winner of the 2023 Presidential election?
Who is the Governor of Osun State?
Who is Tony Elumelu?
Top Trending ‘When is’ Questions from January to March 2023
When is Easter 2023?
When is WAEC 2023 starting?
When is Ramadan 2023?
When is the deadline for old naira notes?
When is the governorship election in Nigeria?
Top Trending ‘How to’ Questions from January to March 2023
How to check my polling unit?
How to drink pornstar martini?
How to become a heavy equipment operator?
How to reverse a transaction?
How to calculate a safe period to avoid pregnancy?
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

