Tinubu greets Adebanjo on 95th birthday
President-elect Tinubu says Ayo Adebanjo is one of the few remaining disciples of the late sage, Obafemi Awolowo.
The President-elect, Bola Tinubu, has praised Ayo Adebanjo for his contributions to progressive good governance in Nigeria over several decades.
Mr Tinubu spoke in a message from his media office on Sunday congratulating the leader of pan-Yoruba socio-political group, Afenifere, on his 95th birthday.
While thanking God for his gift of longevity, the President-elect said Mr Adebanjo is one of the few remaining disciples of the late sage, Obafemi Awolowo.
Mr Tinubu said Mr Adebanjo has been consistent over the years in fighting for good governance and social justice in Nigeria.
The President-elect particularly commended Mr Adebanjo for his leading role in the fight against military dictatorship, his pro-democracy struggles in NADECO and remarkable leadership within the Afenifere fold.
“I congratulate Baba Ayo Adebanjo on attaining 95 in good health. Baba is one of the few remaining disciples of our late sage, Chief Obafemi Awolowo.
“Papa Adebanjo has remained consistent in sustaining the ideals of progressive good governance and social justice.
“I salute his courage over the years and the useful role he has played in ensuring that Nigeria remains a strong, united and prosperous country.
“We pray that Almighty Allah grant Baba more years so he can witness the dawn of a new era where the hopes of our people for a better, stronger, more secure and more prosperous Nigeria will not only be renewed but come to full realisation.
“I wish Baba Adebanjo good health, renewed strength and, above all, continued grace of God.”
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999


