Ekiti governor to appoint person with disability into government
Governor Oyebanji says people living with disability are special to his administration and that his government would work hard to bring out the best in them.
Ekiti State Governor, Biodun Oyebanji, has promised to appoint a person with disability into his cabinet so that people with special needs and students of Special Schools will be given due attention in the state.
Mr Oyebanji said the appointee would be someone with the requisite knowledge in special education and who has a genuine passion for the welfare and well-being of the physically challenged.
According to a statement by the governor’s spokesperson, Olayinka Oyebode, on Sunday, the governor said the appointment is to give physically challenged people a voice in government and help redress their neglect.
Mr Oyebanji spoke on Saturday when he made a surprise visit to the State Special School for the Blind in Ikere Ekiti.
He said people living with disability are special to his administration and that his government would work hard to bring out the best in them.
Mr Oyebanji, who was conducted around the school for an on-the-spot- assessment of facilities by the principal, Amogbonjaye Felicia, said he would give the school a facelift to make its environment more friendly, accommodating and conducive for learning.
The governor, who was accompanied to the school by the Secretary to Ekiti State Government, Habibat Adubiaro, Head of Service, Bamidele Agbede, Mr Oyebode, and other top government officials, appealed to the well-to-do in the society to come to the aid of people living with disabilities.
He said individuals could adopt some of the special students or volunteer to fix facilities in their homes and schools to complement the government’s efforts.
The governor had earlier appealed to his friends on his birthday last year to make contributions on the occasion to the three special schools in the state.
Mr Oyebanji said he was happy that the donations yielded a good result as the proceeds from the birthday were used to renovate the school’s hostel.
Governor Oyebanji addressed the students after assessing the facilities at the school, urging them to see themselves as specially created by God for a purpose, adding that they are as precious to God as other children and should not feel inferior to anyone.
“I want to let you know you are not an accident, God created you for a purpose, and you will fulfil the purpose. I have come to let you know you are not inferior to anybody and to assure you that your government, the government of Ekiti State, will stand by you; we will partner with you in a way and manner that it will give a good meaning to your lives.
“I assure you, there will be changes, there is ability in disability, and we will work so hard to ensure that we play up those abilities in you.
“We are going to have a Special Adviser for people with special needs and our special schools so that you can stand alone and have someone in the cabinet that will be speaking for you.
“You will recall that when I celebrated my birthday last year, I appealed to my friends that they should convert their gifts into donations to the special schools in the state. I am glad today that the money they made from my friends is been used to renovate the school, and it speaks to the fact that we can be our brother’s keeper.

“I am using this opportunity to appeal to people that God has blessed to please come to the aid of People Living with Disabilities, the government cannot do it alone, but as a government, we will continue to do our best to ensure we give them the best”, the governor said.
The governor later presented cash and material donations to the school. He also made a personal cash donation to sponsor five students for further training in arts and craft at a training school in Lagos, as requested by the students.


Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

