15 killed, burnt beyond recognition in Enugu highway crash
The victims have been given mass burial. All obstructions have been cleared. Enugu State Fire Service already extinguished the fire on the bus.
All 15 occupants of a Toyota bus were killed and burnt beyond recognition on Saturday when the bus had a head-on collision with a Mercedes truck on the Port Harcourt-Enugu Highway.
Spokesperson of the FRSC, Bisi Kazeem, an assistant corps marshal, confirmed the accident in a statement he issued on Sunday in Abuja.
Mr Kazeem stated that the accident took place at the Enugu end of the highway at about 8.20 p.m.
“The victims have been given mass burial. All obstructions have been cleared. Enugu State Fire Service already extinguished the fire on the bus.
“The fatal crash is blameable on several factors including fatigue, which must have made one of the drivers sleep on the wheels,’’ he stated.
Mr Kazeem quoted the FRSC Corps Marshal, Dauda Biu, as advising motorists to desist from night journeys to reduce fatalities from road crashes.
He added that Mr Biu noted that most fleet operators and other vehicle owners, including private vehicle owners addicted to night journeys, did so for selfish economic gains.
The FRSC boss observed that most night travellers indulge in the overloading of vehicles with passengers and goods.
“Travellers should plan their journeys for the daytime because when crashes occur away from FRSC rescue points, it is difficult to access help from other motorists at night,’’ Mr Kazeem also quoted Biu as saying.
(NAN)
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999


