Police arrest another Kuje jail escapee in Nasarawa
Mr Buhari was arrested with his friend Zubairu Ali for allegedly snatching a motorcycle in Nasarawa Local Government Area (LGA) of the state.
The police command in Nasarawa State has arrested Salisu Buhari, one of the inmates of Kuje Correctional Centre who escaped from the facility during the July 2022 jailbreak.
This was contained in a statement signed by Ramhan Nansel, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) on Sunday in Lafia.
Mr Nansel, a deputy superintendent of police, said that Mr Buhari was arrested with his friend Zubairu Ali for allegedly snatching a motorcycle in Nasarawa Local Government Area (LGA) of the state.
“On April 6, at about 10:00 p.m., police operatives attached to Nassarawa Division arrested the fugitive and one other for motorcycle theft.
“Preliminary investigation revealed that the suspects are responsible for most motorcycle snatching and theft in Nasarawa LGA and its environs.
“Upon interrogation, Salisu Buhari confessed to have escaped from Kuje Correctional Centre when the facility was attacked last year.
“The escapee said he linked up with his crony after escaping from the facility and went into the criminal venture,” the spokesperson for the police added.
He said that the state Commissioner of Police Maiyaki Muhammed-Baba had ordered the transfer of the case to the state Criminal Investigation Department, Lafia, for an exhaustive investigation.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the state command had on 9 July 2022 recaptured one of the escaped inmates, Hassan Hassan.
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999


