JAMB fixes new date for 2023 UTME
The adjustment in the date of the UTME was to accommodate some other major and critical national assignments.
The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) has announced a new date for the commencement of the 2023 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examinations (UTME).
The board disclosed this in a statement signed by its Head of Public Affairs and Protocol, Fabian Benjamin, in Abuja on Sunday.
Mr Benjamin said the UTME which was earlier scheduled to commence on 29 April, would now start on 25 April
He also said the board would hold its rescheduled mock UTME on 18 April.
” It would be recalled that JAMB had earlier conducted its 2023 Mock-UTME on Thursday, March 30 in 725 centres across the country.
” However, the exercise ran into some technical hitches in some centres, thereby denying some candidates the opportunity to sit for the examination.
” The board’s mock examination was designed for the purpose of testing its preparedness and that of its partners for the UTME as well as give prospective candidates the opportunity to have hands-on experience of the CBT test environment.
” It is, therefore, in order to give those candidates, who were unable to sit for the examination owing to no fault of theirs, the opportunity to take the examination that the mock examination had been rescheduled to hold on Tuesday, 18 April, he said.
He said that candidates who were present and screened for the examination but could not sit for it had been rescheduled to retake the mock examination on 18 April.
Mr Benjamin, therefore, said the result of the candidates who successfully took the mock examination on 30 March, had been released.
He also said the board had brought forward the conduct of its 2023 UTME which was earlier scheduled to hold from Saturday, 29 April to Tuesday, 25 April
He said the adjustment in the date of the UTME was to accommodate some other major and critical national assignments.
” By so doing, the board hopes that no citizen will be denied the opportunity of exercising their civic responsibilities.
” It should be noted that the board does not have the liberty of shifting forward its examination as other public examinations are billed to commence their exercises in the early part of May 2023.
“Yet another factor is the need to accommodate those institutions with stable academic calendars to resume as scheduled,” he added.

He said the board would continue to partner with relevant agencies of government to ensure that its candidates got the best.
He said the board also solicited the understanding of all as it delivered on its critical mandate.


Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

