FRSC returns N27.1 million recovered from accident scene to victim’s family – Official
The FRSC corps marshal expressed satisfaction over the good conduct, honesty and sense of patriotism exhibited by the personnel.
The Corps Marshal, Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Dauda Biu, has commended the patrol teams of Osun State command for returning N27.1 million recovered from an accident scene.
This is contained in a statement signed by the Corps Public Education Officer (CPEO), Bisi Kazeem, on Sunday in Abuja.
The corps marshal expressed satisfaction over the good conduct, honesty and sense of patriotism exhibited by the personnel.
Mr Biu, who applauded them, said the team did not only show professionalism in doing their job but also ensured that the integrity of the corps was protected and promoted at the highest level.
He explained that the recovered amount was returned in the presence of the DPO Ipetu-Ijesa, Seriki Owena, and the head of the Hausa community.
He commended the patrol team and the entire personnel in the Osun command, assuring them of continued welfare to the staff across the county.
“I want to commend the entire team for being patriotic, honest, efficient and professional in delivering the mandate of the FRSC.
“This act they showed would never be forgotten as it is considered a great service to humanity.
“I charge every officer to emulate this character exhibited by the team, as good deeds pay off, the road is patient but does not forgive, ” he said.
The FRSC boss who lamented over the crash said it would have been avoided if the motorists had adhered strictly to traffic rules and regulations.
He said that the multiple road accidents in Ipetu Ijesa, in Oriade Local Government Area of the state had claimed six lives while seven others sustained various injuries.
Mr Biu, however, urged motorists to comply with the traffic rules and regulations to avoid crashes, especially during the Easter celebration.
He assured that the FRSC would continue to ensure the safety of lives and property while reiterating the commitment of the agency to making the road safe for all.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that two commercial vehicles were involved in the accident and the crash was attributed to dangerous driving and speeding.
Seven people were injured while six others died.

The injured were taken to Wesley Guild Hospital, Ilesa, while the corpses of the deceased were deposited at the same hospital morgue.
(NAN)


Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

