Tinubu greets Christians at Easter, urges Nigerians to love their neighbours
Mr Tinubu also noted that the country would make progress in many areas if Nigerians eschew divisive, parochial, ethnic and religious sentiments and rivalries.
President-elect, Bola Tinubu, has enjoined Christians in Nigeria to use the occasion of the Easter to reflect on the priceless sacrifice and limitless love of God for mankind.
In a statement he personally signed on Saturday, Mr Tinubu said for Christians the celebration is in commemoration of Jesus Christ’s life of service and supreme sacrifice for the salvation of mankind .
He asked them to imbibe the essential message of Christ’s ministry and truly begin to love fellow Nigerians as they love themselves.
Mr Tinubu also noted that the country would make progress in many areas if Nigerians eschew divisive, parochial, ethnic and religious sentiments and rivalries.
“We will make faster progress towards the achievement of the peaceful, united, strong, progressive and prosperous country we all desire if we eschew divisive, parochial, ethnic and religious sentiments and rivalries, and begin to live more harmoniously with our compatriots,” he said.
Read the full statement below:
I send my best wishes to Christians in Nigeria and all over the world who are celebrating Easter this Sunday. As we all enjoy the well-deserved break, I urge every Nigerian to reflect on the priceless sacrifice and limitless love of God for mankind.
As we celebrate, let us also remember our obligation, as God’s children, to love our neighbour, regardless of tongue, faith and tribe.
For Christians everywhere, this celebration is in commemoration of Jesus Christ’s life of service and his supreme sacrifice for the salvation of mankind.
And as we observe Easter this year, let us all imbibe the essential message of Christ’s ministry and truly begin to love our fellow Nigerians as we love ourselves.
We will make faster progress towards the achievement of the peaceful, united, strong, progressive and prosperous country we all desire if we eschew divisive, parochial, ethnic and religious sentiments and rivalries, and begin to live more harmoniously with our compatriots.
Easter is about Renewed Hope and Redemption. It symbolizes the triumph of hope over despair, love over hate and condemnation, and optimism over cynicism. Let us embrace this spirit and recommit ourselves to edifying and patriotic pursuits in the interest of our nation.
I wish you all very happy Easter celebrations.
Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu
President-Elect, Federal Republic of Nigeria
08 April, 2023.
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility

Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

