Easter: IGP orders security patrols, protection of public spaces
The IGP directed that the intensive patrols should cover worship centres, train stations, highways, motor parks, airports, waterways, recreation centres, banks and other financial institutions.
The Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Usman Baba, has ordered security checks and patrols of all public spaces and essential government assets during the Easter celebrations.
Mr Baba gave the order in a statement by the Force Public Relations Officer, Olumuyiwa Adejobi, on Friday in Abuja.
The IGP assured Nigerians of the commitment of the Nigeria Police Force to ensuring the safety and security of all citizens and visitors.
He directed Commissioners of Police and Zonal Assistant Inspectors-General of Police to ensure efficient deployment of personnel and operational assets to areas of likely security threats.
The police boss also charged all supervising officers to ensure that intensive and proactive visibility patrols were carried out.
He directed that the intensive patrols should cover worship centres, train stations, highways, motor parks, airports, waterways, recreation centres, banks and other financial institutions.
The IGP said the target should be to ensure a crime-free and peaceful environment for religious, cultural and other socio-economic activities during Easter.
Mr Baba, therefore, said all officers and men deployed for these duties be properly supervised to ensure professionalism and courteous conduct.
He added that they must also be firm and ruthless to criminals who might want to take advantage of the festive period to perpetrate their unholy and criminal acts.
He felicitated Nigerians and the Christian community in particular, on the commemoration of the crucifixion, death and resurrection of Jesus Christ.
The IGP appreciated the citizens for their support and urged them to continue to cooperate with the police and other security agencies by providing prompt and actionable information to prevent crimes.
(NAN)
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.

By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

