Budget deficits, low revenue responsible for rising debt – DMO
The records show that deficits in the annual budgets, including supplementary budgets, rose to N10.78 trillion in 2023 from N1.62 trillion in 2015.
The Debt Management Office (DMO) says decades of operating budget deficits by successive governments are responsible for Nigeria’s high debt profile.
The Director-General of the DMO, Patience Oniha, said this to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Sunday in Abuja.
According to Ms Oniha, a review of Nigeria’s fiscal data shows that not only has the government operated budget deficits, which have been growing, most of the deficits have been funded through local and external borrowing.
“The records show that deficits in the annual budgets, including supplementary budgets, rose to N10.78 trillion in 2023 from N1.62 trillion in 2015.
“Between 82 per cent and 99 per cent of these were funded by new borrowing, which ranged from N1.46 trillion in 2015 to N8.80 trillion in 2023.
“These facts confirm that these budget deficits, funded by new borrowings, have been responsible for the rapid growth in the debt stock and the resultant increases in debt service,” she said.
According to Ms Oniha, this trend could have been avoided or at least moderated if revenues had been higher or expenditures lower.
She tasked the incoming government of Bola Tinubu to take cognisance of the situation and prioritise increased revenue generation.
“The budget deficits would have been much smaller, or Nigeria would have operated on a balanced budget.
“It is, therefore, imperative that the incoming government takes into account the perennial budget deficits in the preparation of the Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (2024 – 2026) and the 2024 budget.
“The government should also accelerate the growth in revenues to ensure debt sustainability,” she said.
Nigeria’s debt profile stood at N46.25 trillion in December 2022, recording an increase of about seven trillion Naira from the 2021 debt figures.
Total Public debt stock, however, consists of the domestic and external debt stocks of the Federal Government, the 36 state governments and the Federal Capital Territory.
In terms of composition, the total domestic debt stock is N27.55 trillion ($61.42 billion), while the total external debt stock is N18.7 trillion (41.6 billion dollars)
The public debt figures, however, exclude the N22.7 trillion Federal Government’s indebtedness to the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) through Ways and Means advances.

The Ways and Means advances, which the Senate has securitised, and awaiting concurrent securitisation by the House of Representatives, are included in the country’s public debt stock.
Despite the burgeoning debt profile of the country, which rose astronomically under the Buhari administration due to excessive borrowing, the outgoing President is seeking another loan of USD 800m Work Bank.


The loan, if approved by the Senate, will be used to fund the government’s conditional cash transfer to vulnerable Nigerians.
(NAN)
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

