Buhari sacks NIPC boss, Saratu Umar
Presidential spokesperson Femi Adesina disclosed the sack of Saratu Umar on Thursday.
President Muhammadu Buhari has sacked Saratu Umar as the executive secretary of the Nigeria Investment Promotion Commission, ending a crisis that has pitched the sacked boss against her senior officers and affected the operation of the commission.
Presidential spokesperson Femi Adesina disclosed the sack on Thursday. He did not state the reason but PREMIUM had exclusively reported allegations of incompetence and mismanagement against Saratu Umar.
PREMIUM TIMES also understands she recently shunned an invitation to appear before a ministerial panel the affairs of the NIPC under her watch. The Independent and Corrupt Practices and other Related Offences Offences Commission is also investigating Ms Umar for alleged corruption.
Read the full statement by Mr Adesina on Saratu Umar below.
STATE HOUSE PRESS RELEASE
PRESIDENT BUHARI TERMINATES APPOINTMENT OF SARATU UMAR AS NIPC BOSS
President Muhammadu Buhari has terminated the appointment of Hajiya Saratu Umar as the Executive Secretary/Chief Executive Officer of the Nigeria Investment Promotion Commission (NIPC), with immediate effect.
In a directive to the Honourable Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Otunba Richard Adeniyi Adebayo CON, the President also mandated the most senior Director in the Commission to immediately take over in the interim.
Femi Adesina
Special Adviser to the President
(Media and Publicity)
 
 
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.

For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

