Reps probe “payment” of N20 billion to “ghost” consultants
The NNPCL allegedly paid the N20 billion to one of its consultants, Messrs Safaya.
The House of Representatives has resolved to investigate the alleged diversion of N20 billion through “shady consultancy” by the staff of NNPC Limited.
The resolution was a sequel to a motion of urgent public importance moved by Ibrahim Kawu (APC, Kano) on Thursday during plenary.
Mr Kawu, in the motion, called for an investigation to address the alleged payment of N20 billion to the consultants by the NNPC Limited.
“The staff of the Nigerian National Petroleum Company are reported to have diverted over N20 billion in the guise of consultancy fees paid to its consultants, Messrs Safaya,” he said.
Mr Kawu noted that the House must undertake the investigation to “complement” the effort of the federal government in the fight against corruption.
PREMIUM TIMES had reported that NNPC Limited refuted a publication by an online medium, Sahara Reporters, that the corporation diverted the money.
NNPC Limited had in a statement said it did not pay any ghost consultant, noting that there is an “N18 billion” dispute with Ogun State which is currently in court.
Mr Kawu’s motion was taken without debate, and consequently, the House resolved to set up an ad hoc committee to conduct the investigation.
The committee which has not been constituted was mandated to report back to the House in four weeks.
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999


