Easter: Nigerian govt declares Friday, Monday public holidays
The minister wished all Christians a most blissful celebration and all Nigerians a happy holiday.
The federal government has declared Friday, 7 April and Monday, 10 April as public holidays for the 2023 Easter celebration.
This is contained in a statement on Wednesday in Abuja, by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Intrerior, Shuaib Belgore.
Mr Belgore said that the Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, made the declaration on behalf of the federal government.
Mr Aregbesola urged Christians to emulate the virtues of sacrifice, togetherness, forgiveness, kindness, love peace and patience which were attributes and practices of Jesus Christ, as exemplified by His ministry on the earth.
He also called on Nigerians to use the occasion to pray for an end to the security challenges in some parts of the country, adding that security was everybody’s business.
He also enjoined them to love their neighbours through acts of kindness and generosity of spirit, with the well to do sharing their substance with the less privileged around them.
He urged Nigerians and foreigners resident in the country to display high sense of citizenship and public spiritedness by supporting the efforts of the security agencies.
This, the minister said, was with a view to ensure peace and security of lives and property of Nigerians.
He said that the federal government was doing all that was necessary in ensuring a peaceful transition of government following the peaceful conduct of the 2023 general elections.
“The nation is persistently on the part to greatness and I urge all Nigerians to positively deploy their creative energy to the full realisation of the coming prosperity, as there is surely light at the end of the tunnel,” he said.
The minister wished all Christians a most blissful celebration and all Nigerians a happy holiday.
(NAN)
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.

By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

