Court orders interim forfeiture of N725 million property linked to ex-NIMASA boss
EFCC says the N725 million worth property located at Plot J 37A 218 Close, 2nd Avenue, Banana Island, Ikoyi, Lagos, is “reasonably suspected to be proceeds of an unlawful activity.”
he Federal High Court in Lagos has ordered the interim forfeiture of a N725 million worth Banana Island, Lagos property linked to Patrick Akpobolokemi, a former Director-General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA).
The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) said in a statement that the judge, Tijani Ringim, issued the interim forfeiture order following its ex parte application.
It told the court in its application that the property at Plot J 37A 218 Close, 2nd Avenue, Banana Island, Ikoyi, Lagos, was “reasonably suspected to be proceeds of an unlawful activity.”
The judge went on to grant the application for interim forfeiture giving anyone interested in the asset 14 days to show cause why the property should not be permanently forfeited to the federal government.
READ EFCC’S STATEMENT IN FULL
EFCC Press Release
Court Orders Interim Forfeiture of N725m, Banana Island Property Linked to Ex-NIMASA DG, Akpobolokemi
Justice Tijani Ringim of the Federal High Court sitting in Ikoyi, Lagos has ordered the interim forfeiture of the sum of N725,345,897.77 and a property situated at Plot J 37A 218 Close, 2nd Avenue, Banana Island, Ikoyi, Lagos linked to Patrick Akpobolokemi, a former Director-General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, NIMASA.
The Judge gave the Order, following a motion ex parte filed and argued by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC.
Moving the application on Monday, April 3, 2023, counsel to the EFCC, Bilikisu Buhari, submitted that the money was “reasonably suspected to be proceeds of an unlawful activity.”
Buhari also argued that the property was “reasonably suspected to have been acquired with proceeds of an unlawful activity.”
The EFCC counsel further prayed for an order directing the EFCC to publish the interim Order in a national newspaper to enable anyone interested in the properties sought to be forfeited to appear before the court to show cause, within 14 days , “why the final order of forfeiture of the said properties should not be made in favour of the Federal Government of Nigeria”.
Justice Ringim, in granting the application held that “I find merit in this statutory application and same is granted as prayed.”
Wilson Uwujaren
Head, Media & Publicity

04/04/2023
Support PREMIUM TIMES' journalism of integrity and credibility
Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.
For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.
By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.
TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999

